

____________________________________________________________

Table of contents

1. With her sexual orientation called a motive to kill, she's now appealing for clemency

2. WHEN CRIME GOES VIRAL

3. Chicago Foundation for Women virtually holds 2020 Impact Awards

4. Table of Contents

5. Credits

6. Census 2020 is complicated for LGBTQ people, but it counts

7. 'Tiger King' rules television

8. Gay sign-language interpreter on press conferences, LGBTQs

9. Patin at Hyde Park through Feb. 28

10. Guide to the LGBTQs

11. Patin at Hyde Park through Feb. 28

12. Levander Smith Jr.: Out judicial candidate on status, campaign

13. letters

14. Credits

15. Youth group hosts gender-expansive services symposium

16. Pritzker names Bennett new state human-rights director

17. Chicago writer explores feminist accountability, transformative justice

18. Report: Lack of support for student survivors of domestic violence

19. BILLY Masters

20. COMMUNITY CALENDAR

21. Bishop Phyllis V. Pennese on leadership, 15-year anniversary

22. Panel focuses on LGBTQ domestic violence stigmas

23. Table of contents

24. COMMUNITY CALENDAR

25. Immigrants, officials criticize Rauner vetoes

26. Making no small plans: Marcia Lipetz has died

27. Artemisia Fest fights for femme presentation

28. COMMUNITY CALENDAR

29. The violence never stops: 16 trans murders already in 2018

30. Dishing with Christine Ebersole and Seth Rudetsky

31. Wachowski exhibit featured at Rush's Pride reception

32. 19TH ANNUAL 30 UNDER THIRTY HONORS

33. Getting to know American Beauty Show's Paul Dykstra

34. Black women anti-rape advocates unite at UIC

35. Advocate recounts challenges facing women with HIV

36. Record number of LGBTs running in March Illinois primary election

37. Brad Trowbridge: Activist again takes aim at judicial post

38. Record number of LGBTs running in March Illinois primary election

39. Southern Gothic

40. Record number of LGBTs running in March Illinois primary election

41. MCC elder talks Cajun roots, faith and lesbian polyamorous relationship

42. My Black lesbian body is a target for police brutality

43. Credits

44. NCAVP, HRC/TPOCC release reports on anti-trans violence

45. Wrestler Anthony Bowens: Talking about sport, coming out as bi

46. Judge Nancy Katz reflects on career

47. Housing-rights activists protest Cappleman's office

48. Legal specialist talks about aspects of criminal-justice system

49. Sidetrack’s OUTspoken! Series: July’s featured storytellers

50. 18TH ANNUAL THIRTY UNDER 30 HONORS

51. NCAVP report: 2016 deadliest year for HIV, LGBT communities

52. Youth resident of Chicago House stabbed to death

53. Patrick Dati raises voice against domestic abuse

54. Table of contents

55. 'Doll Parts': Talking with Amanda Lepore

56. IPV study taking place at NU

57. NU conference looks at LGBT health

58. LGBTQ partner violence presents unique challenges

59. COMMUNITY CALENDAR

60. A few LGBTQ concerts to watch out for

61. BILLY Masters

62. Center relaunches therapy group for LGBT violence survivors

63. Rep. Lipinski's votes on LGBT issues

64. The next wave

65. BILLY Masters

66. First trans homicides of 2017 recorded

67. Religion and violence against women

68. Gaylon Alcaraz's radical journey

69. COMMUNITY CALENDAR

70. Fused Muse brings audiences to 'Edge of Shelter'

71. Dems triumph in Illinois races

72. 24th District incumbent faces a challenge

73. Love and violence in Black LGBTQ communities

74. Sarah Schulman discusses queer culture, 'Conflict'

75. MAP report shows shocking disparities in the bisexual community

76. Dawn Valenti: A Chicago survivor's story

77. Rita Adair talks activism, upcoming book, social work

78. Activist Rachel Williams talks #SayHerName, BYP100, intersectionality

79. Chicago's Latino community stands with the LGBTQ Latino community

80. Making sense of senseless acts

81. 'Mudderella' June 4

82. Talking with prison abolitionist Mariame Kaba

83. Assault, violence groups release statement

84. 'Mudderella' June 4

85. Activist/scholar Richie keynotes International Women's Day event

86. in the LIFE: Kyle J Krueger

87. Affinity holds annual Burning Bowl, names new director

88. ASK A FEMINIST

89. Chicago homeless, advocates confront Ald. Cappleman

90. Steinem, Gay talk with sold-out Chicago audience

91. New study aims to improve health care for LGBT people of color

92. letters

93. Windy City Times at 30

94. 19th transgender murder raises questions about reporting

95. Demystifying sexual abuse in the LGBTQ community

96. COMMUNITY CALENDAR

97. Leaders reflect on activism as organization folds

98. Commissioner launches Off the Sidelines-Chicago

99. Deborah's Place marks 30 years fighting for homeless women

100. Griner, Johnson under seven-game suspension

101. Griner, Johnson tie the knot

102. Amigas Latinas to fold after 20 years; last event July 10

103. Jussie Smollett and Yazz: Lyons rule 'Empire'

104. Longtime political activist Jean Hardisty dies

105. U.S. murders of trans, gender-exploring people continue

106. HUD tells homeless shelters to respect self-identified gender

107. Out gay candidate makes play for 15th Ward seat

108. Sam Smith star of the Grammys

109. TPAN receives $115K from Alphawood

110. Letters to the editor

111. Chicago Women Take Action forum hosts mayoral candidates

112. Intimate partner violence report out

113. Dear White People; Nightcrawler; film note

114. Chicago lesbian joins NFL domestic-violence, sexual-assault group

115. Intimate partner violence report out

116. CALENDAR

117. UIC policy expert named to NFL's violence panel

118. Facebook trying to fix policy

119. CALENDAR

120. Billie Jean King takes fair shot at equality at luncheon

121. Honors roll in for UIC researcher

122. Montrose Rocks annual event faces uncertain future

123. AFC event 'Ignites' group's 30th anniversary

124. Summer staycations

125. Lay Me Down Softly

126. LGBT advocates praise VAWA guidelines

127. Woman fights for right to 'walk while trans'

128. Is CeCe McDonald Free?

129. LGBT rights among topics discussed at immigration summit

130. CALENDAR

131. Rachelle Brown works on LGBT religious issues

132. Looking back: Sports & Entertainment 2013

133. Looking back The year in national news

134. What's up next for Chicago's Catholics?

135. CALENDAR

136. DICK Durbin visits Center on Halsted

137. Life after marriage (equality)

138. Coming Out for Community

139. Queer South Asian activist wades into marriage battle

140. LGBT domestic-violence murder stats stun advocates

141. Chicago NOW celebrates'Women Who Dared'

142. Talking with the ladies behind the BlogHer conference

143. 'March on Springfield' to take place Oct. 22

144. Lane Tech teacher out and proud

145. Rev. Nancy Wilson, MCC conference headed to Chicago

146. Beth Richie on race, gender and the 'prison nation'

147. Bar association offers training regarding LGBT domestic abuse

148. Center on Halsted's gala puts Chaka Khan, honorees on center stage

149. State's Attorney's LGBTQ/hate crime specialist talks crime and justice

150. With Malice Aforethought: LGBTQs and the criminal justice system

151. Congregation Or Chadash welcomes new rabbi

152. Obama signs VAWA, singles out gay center

153. Congress passes Violence Against Women Act

154. State of the Union address garners mixed reviews

155. calendar Q

156. 'Vagina Monologues' in Aurora Feb. 15

157. 'Vagina Monologues' in Aurora Feb. 15

158. Seeing a future beyond formal LGBT equality: Talking with Urvashi Vaid

159. Teen Living Programs serves homeless youth on South Side

160. Actress Sheryl Lee Ralph talks HIV/AIDS activism, 'Divas'

161. Intimate partner violence report cites lack of access

162. Playing with porn

163. Chicago team are softball champs; squads fall in flag football

164. LGBT fall preview

165. Skin Tight

166. LGBTs question Catholic Charities deal with city for homeless outreach

167. GOP reps call for bipartisan support of anti-violence act

168. Letters to the editor

169. LGBT leaders, activists talk needs-assessment study

170. Esera Tuaolo: Coming back from darkness

171. 13th Annual THIRTY under 30

172. Organizers start new chapter with Black LGBT Pride event

173. Marriage equality includes the military

174. calendar

175. Panel discusses violence in gay male communities

176. Senate vote keeps LGBT protections in domestic-abuse bill

177. LGBT, HIV/AIDS groups among Cubs grantees

178. calendar Q

179. Queer Bronzeville: A History of African American LGBTs on Chicago's South Side, 1900-1985

180. Taking "Action"

181. Judge Mary Trew

182. calendar q

183. Few services for gay survivors of domestic abuse

184. Guide to the gays

185. Guide to the gays

186. Lesbian judge holds campaign fundraiser

187. ELECTIONS 2012: Brad Trowbridge on counseling, inclusive slogan

188. Guide to the gays

189. Anti-domestic violence group's gala March 10

190. Dr. Carl Bell seeks to revolutionize HIV prevention and treatment

191. Guide to the Gays

192. Chaka Khan: She's every woman

193. POW-WOW provides space for women poets

194. calendar Q

195. Hull House Association to close

196. LGBT intimate violence report released

197. Burning Bridges

198. LGBT anti-violence advocates meet with Obama officials

199. Meredith Baxter: Lesbian actress' family ties

200. 'Jim Flint: The Boy from Peoria' book available Nov. 20

201. TPAN gets $100K grant

202. Chicago readies for largest U.S. AIDS confab

203. Researcher unveils 'Runaway Youth Longitudinal Study'

204. Nation's largest AIDS conference to spotlight Chicago groups

205. Gay judge heading domestic-violence area

206. Shadow of a Gunman

207. Employee claims sexual harassment, unfair termination

208. 'The Faggot Who Could Fly' at Center Aug. 8

209. Latina report shows anti-gay bias, abuse

210. 'The Faggot Who Could Fly' at Center Aug. 8

211. Bar foundation awards grants to 23 nonprofits

212. Taking it to the streets: Pink Angels

213. WINDY TIMES CITY 12th Annual THIRTY under 30

214. Mark Ishaug pushes AIDS agenda in Chicago and far beyond

215. House holds DOMA-DoJ hearing

216. U.S. AIDS Confab in Chicago this year

217. Meredith Baxter on new book, coming out

218. PASSAGES: Elizabeth Tocci

219. The Piano Teacher

220. calendar Q

221. Scott Lee Cohen on LGBTs, comeback

222. Sheila Simon on her office and equality

223. Lesbian appointed Cook County judge

224. Margaret Cho: Comic/actress is 'Cho Dependent'

225. Carousel

226. Reefer Madness: The Musical

227. Confab looks at queers and sex offenders

228. Jose Rios: Police LGBT liaison, and loving it

229. calendar

230. DADT enforcement changes announced

231. Sharmili Majmudar: Believing in a better world

232. Drug task force starts Web site

233. Cubs' Laura Ricketts: Owner making history

234. Gay candidates net mixed results

235. Will faith-based agencies help Haiti's gay community?

236. Guide to the Gays

237. Mary Trew

238. 100 AND UNDER Holday Gift Guide

239. Letter

240. County board candidates vie for gay vote

241. LGBTs and cyberstalking

242. Center's domestic-violence safety campaign in gear

243. Groups speak on healthcare reform

244. Steinem speaks

245. NATIONAL ROUNDUP

246. BILLY MASTERS

247. Presenters look at stopping violence

248. Health summit Aug. 14-18

249. Health summit Aug. 14-18

250. Farrah Fawcett dies at 62

251. 30 UNDER THIRTY HONORS

252. Vernita Gray: Fighting for 40 years

253. 'Straight' talk from Debra Chasnoff

254. Yes Means Yes! Visions of Female...

255. A look back: Talking with Burris

256. On the Shore of the Wide World

257. The Young Ladies of...

258. Beyond the wall: LGBT police

259. Del Martin dies

260. Anita Alvarez holds Pride reception

261. 30 UNDER THIRTY 2008

262. Partner violence among forum topics

263. Gay marriage and immigration: Laboring over love

264. Gay pioneer Larry McKeon dies at 63

265. Confab focuses on LGBTs and immigration

266. LGBTs part of May 1 immigration march

267. Body language: A dancer confesses

268. David Halperin on what gay men want

269. Rev. Jeremiah Wright Gets LGBT Support

270. The Revolution Will Not Be Funded: Beyond the Non-Profit Industrial Complex

____________________________________________________________

With her sexual orientation called a motive to kill, she's now appealing for clemency

Author: Hilles, Chloe

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/with-her-sexual-orientation-called-motive-kill/docview/3055548756/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=37&amp;issue=2&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2022-03-17&amp;atitle=With+her+sexual+orientation+called+a+motive+to+kill%2C+she%27s+now+appealing+for+clemency&amp;au=Hilles%2C+Chloe&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=37&amp;issue=2&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2022-03-17&amp;atitle=With+her+sexual+orientation+called+a+motive+to+kill%2C+she%27s+now+appealing+for+clemency&amp;au=Hilles%2C+Chloe&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Headnote This story was initially produced by Injustice Watch, www.injusticewatch.org/, a nonprof't newsroom focused on exposing institutional failures that obstruct justice and equality. Subscribe to its weekly newsletter.
Prosecutors in Bernina Mata's 1999 murder trial made an unusual claim about her motive to kill: the fact that she identified as a lesbian.
Troy Owens, then an assistant state's attorney in Boone County, Illinois, prosecuted the case. He alleged that Mata was "a hardcore lesbian" who decided to kill John Draheim after he made a pass at her at a local bar in Belvidere, outside Rockford.
"A normal heterosexual woman would not be so offended by such conduct as to murder," Owens argued at Mata's trial.
Mata's attorneys said she acted in self-defense after Draheim came back to her apartment and tried to rape her. The attorneys argued that her sexual orientation had nothing to do with her actions.
Mata's roommate at the time testified for the prosecution that Mata had told him she planned to murder Draheim because she was angry that he touched her at the bar. (He pleaded guilty to helping dispose of the body and was sentenced to four years in prison.) The jury sided with the prosecution and sentenced Mata to death. In 2003, then-Gov. George Ryan commuted her sentence to life in prison, along with the sentences of everyone else on death row in Illinois.
In 2006, an appeals court found there was sufficient evidence to prove that Mata had planned the murder in advance.
Now, Mata's lawyers are asking Gov. J.B. Pritzker to grant her release from prison to fix what they call a "horrendous wrong." They filed a petition for executive clemency Tuesday. The petition will now go to the Illinois Prisoner Review Board, which will hold a hearing in April and then make a recommendation to Pritzker.
"Essentially, our criminal legal system is replicating the very forces and dynamics and oppression that some of us say we're against," said Joey Mogul, a partner at the People's Law Office who has represented Mata since 2002. "I think Bernina Mata's story exemplifies that - how racism and anti-lesbian oppression was used to incarcer- ate and try to kill her."
Owens, who is now an attorney in private practice, said in an interview with Injustice Watch the arguments he made at trial about her lesbian identity were "not biased."
A dozen local organizations are backing Mata's bid for clemency, and advocates are working to support her through the process and raise awareness about her case.
"These last 23 years have been very hard for me," Mata wrote in a letter to her supporters in October. "I am not the same person I was all those years ago. I am 51 years old now and would really love a second chance at life."
But Mogul and the rest of Mata's "freedom team" face long odds in their fight for her release. Since 2014, Illinois governors have granted less than 10% of clemency petitions that they've reviewed, according to an analysis of the data from the Prisoner Review Board through October 2021. In just the past two years, Pritzker has granted over 90 commutations - which is over three times more than have been granted in the previous decade - but still a small percentage of the requests that he has received.
Women with history of abuse are more vulnerable to incarceration
Mata is one of 44 women serving life sentences in Illinois as of September. Like many other incarcerated women, Mata is a survivor of abuse. She was sexually abused as a child by her father and stepfather, Mogul said.
Mata's attorneys say Draheim was trying to rape Mata at the time of the murder. The clemency petition cites his history of domestic violence, including a 1995 conviction for domestic battery and an order of protection filed against him by his ex-wife in 1997.
Before Mata went on trial for Draheim's murder, a forensic psychologist examined her and determined that she was suffering from rape trauma syndrome, post-traumatic stress disorder, and had flashbacks of her abusive father at the time of the crime, according to Mogul.
Women and members of the LGBTQ community who have experienced abuse are more vulnerable than men to arrest and incarceration, said attorney Rachel White-Domain, director of the Women & Survivors Project at the Illinois Prison Project and part of Mata's legal team. The pattern is known as the "abuse-to-prison pipeline."
Research shows that most women in prison have experienced abuse or trauma. According a report by the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority in 2010 ( www.jrsa.org/awards/ winners/10_Victimization_Help_Seeking_Behaviors_Female_Prisoners_Illinois.pdf ) - the most recent on the subject - 99% of incarcerated women in Illinois reported having experienced emotional, physical, and/or sexual abuse at some point in their lives.
A recent report by the Sentencing Project, a nonprofit research organization that promotes criminal justice reform, suggests that women face gender-based stigmas and biases in the courts that can affect their sentencing outcomes. Those biases are compounded for women of color, such as Mata, who is Latinx, Mogul said.
Mata's attorneys say that happened in her case. The prosecutors, judge, and jury failed to take her history of abuse into account, instead relying on outdated and incorrect stereotypes about her lesbian identity, Mogul said.
"If it wasn't for these ways of demonizing her based on her race and sexual identity, she never would have been charged with capital murder," Mogul said. "She would have never been given a death sentence, let alone have a life sentence, and it's likely she could be out to this day."
Owens defended his handling of the case and his use of Mata's sexual orientation as a motive for murder.
"If there was a heterosexual motive to kill, we would have argued that - if it existed," Owens said. "If there was any other basis to argue that she had to kill, then we would have used that as a basis for motive."
Clemency has an established history with lawyers and abolitionists as a tool to free criminalized survivors of abuse. In the late 1980s, as self-defense laws changed nationally, clemency campaigns for "battered women" began popping up in various states, White-Domain said. She said the Illinois Clemency Project for Battered Women had dozens of successes in the 1990s.
More recently, "participatory defense campaigns" have been an abolitionist organizing strategy to support survivors, especially people of color and members of the LGBTQ community. Groups like Love & Protect, a Chicago organization that supports criminalized survivors, have successfully helped free survivors, such as Marissa Alexander, Tewkunzi Green, and Bresha Meadows.
Effective defense campaigns demonstrate care for incarcerated people through letter-writing campaigns, prison visits, and financial support, according to members of Love & Protect. They also work to raise public awareness about a case and push for legal remedies, such as getting prosecutors to drop charges, asking courts to review a wrongful conviction, or petitioning a governor to commute a sentence.
"Clemency is an extremely proper vehicle to address exactly the sort of problems that we see in Bernina's case - mainly not recognizing or understanding trauma and abuse and how they can affect someone's mindset," White-Domain said. "I think there's agreement that we have come a very, very long way since 1998 on issues like that."
'A check on the excesses of the judicial system'
Illinois abolished discretionary parole in 1978, which means that people serving life sentences, such as Mata, have only one avenue for release: executive clemency.
The Illinois constitution gives the governor broad powers to grant pardons, which eliminate a person's criminal record (usually after the state releases them from prison), and commutations, which shorten a person's sentence.
"It's supposed to be a check on the excesses of the judicial system," White-Domain said.
But historically, governors have denied clemency petitions far more often than they've granted them.
Since 2004, Illinois governors have granted about 1,150 pardons and 117 commutations out of more than 11,000 clemency petitions heard by the Prisoner Review Board. More than 75% of the commutations over that period were granted by Pritzker from January 2020 through October 2021. (The Prisoner Review Board did not respond to our request for updated data.)
Since he came into office in January 2019, Pritzker has granted more than 200 pardons and nearly 100 commutations, according to the data from the Prisoner Review Board. That's about one-quarter of the petitions that he has acted upon. Many of those came as the Covid-19 pandemic swept through prisons last year, killing at least 88 incarcerated people. Pritzker also pardoned more than 11,000 people for marijuana possession in December 2019, on the eve of cannabis legalization in the state, the Chicago Tribune reported. But those pardons are not included in the Prisoner Review Board's data.
The Prisoner Review Board heard about 650 clemency petitions per year, on average, from 2004 to 2019. The board makes a confidential recommendation to the governor, who has no deadline to decide.
Former Gov. Bruce Rauner, a Republican, approved less than 5% of clemency petitions that he reviewed, according to an Injustice Watch analysis of the data. From 2009 to 2015, former Gov. Pat Quinn, a Democrat, approved 25% of clemency petitions that he reviewed, many of which were backlogged from his predecessor, former Gov. Rod Blagojevich. Blagojevich, a Democrat who had his sentence on federal corruption charges commuted last year by former President Donald Trump, granted 65 pardons. That was less than 1% of petitions heard by the Prisoner Review Board during his six years in office, according to the Prisoner Review Board data.
Filing for clemency is typically the last option for incarcerated people after they've exhausted all avenues for appeal. Many incarcerated people file clemency petitions without the help of an outside attorney, said Anthony Jones, a paralegal who served almost 30 years in prison. He helped dozens of other prisoners file clemency petitions while he was in Stateville Correctional Center, he said. Those petitions are less likely to be approved but no less worthy of mercy, said Jones, whose petition for clemency was granted by Pritzker last year. He currently works as a community educator at the Illinois Prison Project.
While incarcerated at Logan Correctional Center in Lincoln, Illinois, Mata received her GED certificate, has taken college courses, trained service dogs, and helped care for incarcerated people with disabilities, Mogul said. Her freedom team hopes that her accomplishments in prison, along with the details of her prosecution, will be enough to convince the Prisoner Review Board and Pritzker to give her a chance at freedom.
"We're really fortunate that we have this tremendous team of people who are supporting Bernina and wrapping their arms around her," Mogul said, "and showing the (Prisoner Review Board) that she is a valuable human being, like all human beings, that she's loved, that she's cared for."
Chloe Hilles is a senior at Northwestern University studying journalism and political science. She was an intern at Injustice Watch in Fall 2021.

Subject: Sexual orientation; Self defense; Criminalization; Heterosexuality; Trauma; Attorneys; Oppression; Rape; Trials; Gays & lesbians; Review boards; Criminal sentences; Clemency; Convictions; LGBTQ community; Abolitionists; Women; Governors; Prisoners; Sexual abuse; Imprisonment

Business indexing term: Subject: Attorneys

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US; Illinois

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: With her sexual orientation called a motive to kill, she's now appealing for clemency

Publication title: Windy City Times; Ch icago, Ill.

Volume: 37

Issue: 2

Pages: 6-7

Publication year: 2022

Publication date: Mar 17, 2022

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 3055548756

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wi th-her-sexual-orientation-called-motive-kill/docview/3055548756/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 17, 2022

Last updated: 2024-05-16

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

WHEN CRIME GOES VIRAL

Author: Rhodes, Adam

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/when-crime-goes-viral/docview/3055998822/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=36&amp;issue=3&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2021-06-10&amp;atitle=WHEN+CRIME+GOES+VIRAL&amp;au=Rhodes%2C+Adam&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=36&amp;issue=3&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2021-06-10&amp;atitle=WHEN+CRIME+GOES+VIRAL&amp;au=Rhodes%2C+Adam&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Headnote Activists say Illinois's law that makes it illegal to expose others to HIV is ratist and homophobic. Now they're close to changing it.
In early 2016, Jimmy Amutavi had what he considered a happy Life.
More than a decade had passed since he first emigrated to the U.S. from Kenya with dreams of being a personal trainer. Amutavi had settled down with his wife and young son in Evanston and was renting space at a nearby gym where the Lifelong fitness fanatic gave private lessons.
But Amutavi's ties to the gym went beyond business.
Amutavi says he got a voicemail message from a Skokie police detective in 2016 saying there was a warrant out for his arrest. The detective alleged the personal trainer had exposed three women he had sex with to HIV without their knowledge. One of them was a woman he'd met at the gym with whom he'd had a relationship.
Amutavi remembers feeling like his Life was over.
"I was just floating there," Amutavi says. "I didn't know anything. It was as if someone had drugged me, and I was a zombie."
He surrendered to police custody in October 2016, but maintained his innocence.
Amutavi claims that when he ended his relationship with the woman, she retaliated by contacting his clients and disclosing his HIV status. Two other women, who Amutavi had also slept with, then agreed to press charges as well, he says. In addition, his Lawyer tells the Reader and Injustice Watch that Amutavi's principal accuser allegedly violated health privacy laws to obtain Amutavi's private medical information through her job at a local hospital, which gave her access to those records. Phone calls and e-mails to the woman were not returned.
The Cook County State's Attorney's Office charged Amutavi with three counts of criminal transmission of HIV, each count punishable by up to seven years in prison. Prosecutors alleged Amutavi had intentionally hidden his HIV status from the three women, and through condomless sex, had put them at risk of contracting the virus themselves.
Prosecutors dropped the charges in April 2017 under then-newly elected Cook County State's Attorney Kim Foxx's office.
"Jon saved my Life," Amutavi says of his attorney, Jon F. Erickson. "He gave me a lot of peace, and he assured me that we were gonna beat this."
One of the problems with the state's case against Amutavi was that there was virtually no way for him to transmit the virus because he takes medicine to treat and suppress the HIV in his body.
Illinois's HIV criminalization law makes it illegal for a person Living with HIV to have condomless sex without first disclosing their HIV status to their sexual partners. The Law also makes it illegal for someone to donate blood, semen, tissue, or organs, or to share non-sterile drug paraphernalia, such as needles, if they have HIV and don't first disclose that to the recipient. The Law can and has been applied even if transmission of HIV does not occur.
Amutavi is one of the dozens of people charged in Cook County under the controversial law that Illinois Lawmakers passed in the Late 1980s at the height of the HIV/AIDS crisis. Scores of critics say policies Like Illinois's are a dangerous and misguided attempt at stopping the spread of HIV and punish people for merely living with the virus while potentially allowing vengeful Lovers to weaponize the Law against people Living with HIV. Activists pushing to repeal the law say it's a product of the overwhelmingly homophobic panic of that era and disproportionately impacts Black and Brown people.
A 2020 Chicago HIV surveillance report found that non-Hispanic Black people accounted for half of all people living with HIV, as well as the most frequently diagnosed population, in Chicago in 2019. Black men who have sex with men are also most at risk for contracting HIV.
"You can't really legislate around stigma," says Aisha Davis, director of policy at AIDS Foundation Chicago. "Then, when you add to that the implications around race, around gender, identi- ty, around just the perception of someone when they've been charged with this, it means that Black and Latinx folks are going to be targeted even more."
Cook County hasn't prosecuted anyone under the statute since 2016. Still, the law remains on the books and within prosecutors' discretion.
Critics are also quick to point out that the law ignores the proliferation of pre-exposure prophylaxis, landmark HIV prevention drugs commonly known as PrEP, which have been found to be almost 99 percent effective. Activists and public health officials alike say the law also ignores the fact that, as the CDC states, people like Amutavi who are living with HIV and have been regularly taking treatment have virtually no risk of transmitting the virus, even without a condom. And like when the law was first up for debate, many today say the law punishes people for living with an incurable virus.
The law targets people "with the specific intent" to withhold their HIV status and spread the virus to their partners. But critics say that intent is difficult if not impossible to prove, and can be easily fabricated.
In June 2017, Amutavi obtained an order of protection for his family against the woman who allegedly accessed Amutavi's medical records. The petition alleges that over a yearlong period beginning in June 2016, the woman keyed Amutavi's car and verbally harassed him, his wife, and young son. However, Amutavi and his family declined to press charges, prioritizing fighting the charges against him.
But even after the county dropped the HIV charges against Amutavi, they still followed him, at least briefly. He applied to clear his record of the charges, but that application was denied in June 2018 by then-Cook County Assistant State's Attorney Michael Falagario. The form-letter denial states that "the people's interest in maintaining the records outweigh petitioner's need for expungement." Falagario wrote "multiple charges involving criminal transmission of HIV" as additional reasoning to deny the expungement petition before signing his name.
Court officials later expunged Amutavi's record in late July 2018 after, Erickson says, they were "educated" about his case.
But Amutavi, now in his 50s, says he still bears the emotional and psychological scars and the real-world consequences from his case. After news organizations like the Chicago Tribune, Seattle Times, and the Associated Press publicized the allegations against him, Amutavi says he lost all of his clients. He left his passion for personal training behind as a result. (He asked the Reader and Injustice Watch not to name his current employer out of fear of harassment from his principal accuser, which he says continues.)
He gets emotional talking about the case and is fiercely private about his personal information out of fear that the woman he broke up with will continue to harass him and his family. Therapy has helped him deal with the anxiety, depression, and PTSD he says he carries from the ordeal. There are good days, he says, when his shame and guilt subside, "but the bad days are still there."
"Every once in a while, I'm reminded of, you know, all of this," he says.
He also says he worries about how the charges, or news coverage about them, will impact his son, now ten years old. Internet searches of Amutavi's name call up his mugshot and the numerous articles about the allegations against him. But news about his exoneration nearly a year later is scant.
"I struggle with this thought, you know, my son googling me," Amutavi says. "And I worry how this might affect him one day."
Amutavi's case, and the damage it caused him and his family, are far from unique.
The Chicago Reader and Injustice Watch examined the law's origins in Illinois, how prosecutors have leveraged it in Cook County, and its impacts on people charged. Our investigation is part of The Circuit, a courts data project led by Injustice Watch and the Better Government Association, in partnership with civic tech consulting firm DataMade.
Early charges under the law indeed reflect critics' concerns about racism and homophobic AIDS panic, but so do recent prosecutions. As part of this investigation, we reviewed court records and used news clippings to dig up charges and track down attorneys, activists, and people charged.
An analysis of Cook County court data by The Circuit shows that Black men make up more than two-thirds of the people charged under this law; and across gender lines 75 percent of those charged are Black.
Court data shows that between 1990 and 2016, the Cook County State's Attorney's Office charged at least 60 people with criminal transmission of HIV. Prosecutors themselves put that number closer to 80 people during that time frame, and the discrepancy could come from myriad places. In our analysis, we eliminated names and cases that appeared to be related or duplicates. Some cases, like the one against Amutavi, could have been expunged or sealed.
The data also shows that prosecutors added HIV transmission charges in nearly 30 cases alleging criminal or aggravated sexual abuse or assault, almost half of the HIV transmission charges we found. Prosecutors have charged 15 people solely with criminal transmission of HIV, half of whom have pleaded guilty. And though prosecutors dropped roughly a third of all HIV-related charges, at least 20 people in the county have been convicted of criminal transmission of HIV since 1989.
The first Cook County State's Attorney to charge someone with criminal transmission of HIV after the law passed in 1989 was Cecil A. Partee, a Democrat who was appointed to replace Richard M. Daley after Daley was elected mayor of Chicago. Partee was the first Black person to serve as the county's top prosecutor, and Cook County wouldn't elect a second until Kim Foxx, another Democrat, won the post in 2016. Partee's tenure was short-lived though, ended by Republican Jack O'Malley in a November 1990 special election.
Court data shows that Partee prosecuted two people under the law. One was a Black man charged in 1990 with criminal sexual assault, criminal HIV transmission, and unlawful restraint. He pled guilty to the latter charge while prosecutors dropped the sex-related claims against him. Circuit Court judge Margaret Stanton McBride, now an Illinois appellate judge, sentenced the man to one year in prison in 1991. We couldn't find out much more than that; privacy laws restrict access to the case file, and we couldn't find contact info for the defendant or any news stories about the case.
However, Partee's other prosecution made more headlines-and stoked critics' fears about the HIV law's disparate application. The case began with the March 1990 arrest of Olivia St. John, a Black transgender woman who an August 1990 Chicago Tribune article reported as the defendent in the county's "first AIDS biting case."
Prosecutors alleged that St. John bit and scratched two police officers as they tried locking her up at a north-side police station after cops found her breaking car windows, according to the article. A representative for the state's attorney's office at the time told the newspaper that prosecutors approved the charges before conferring with medical experts but dropped the charges after they couldn't prove that HIV can be transmitted through saliva.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports that possible HIV transmission from a bite is almost impossible.
Court records about the case show that St. John was initially charged with two counts of criminal transmission of HIV and four counts of aggravated battery. St. John pleaded guilty to a single aggravated battery count in October 1990, and Judge Howard T. Savage sentenced her to three years in the Illinois Department of Corrections. Court records use male gender markers for St. John, who the Tribune reports identifies as a woman, though the article used male gender markers as well.
It's all but certain that St. John was sent to a men's prison in the state, despite being a woman. The American Civil Liberties Union is currently suing the state's department of corrections, alleging the agency fails to properly care for trans people in its custody.
The 1990 Tribune article about St. John's case also uses offensive, outdated, transphobic language to describe her.
Bill McMillan, a member of the Chicago chapter of ACT UP, the historic HIV/AIDS-focused activist group, is quoted in the 1990 article as saying St. John's arrest was "based on racism, homophobia and AIDS panic." ACT UP famously forced the government, and the public, to confront the reality of the virus in the early days of the AIDS crisis under President Ronald Reagan. The grassroots group was founded in New York City in 1987, two years before Illinois passed its HIV criminalization law.
McMillan told the Reader and Injustice Watch that cases like St. John's were all too common. He says he doesn't blame St. John for biting and scratching the officers.
"They were pretty brutal with us, pretty brutal with a lot of people," he says. "She was probably fighting for her life."
McMillan, who now lives in Palm Springs, says he was diagnosed with HIV in 1983, when the virus was known as GRID, or Gay Related Immune Deficiency. He says Illinois's HIV criminalization law, and others like it around the country, came at a particularly difficult time in the AIDS crisis when thousands were dying due in large part to a federal government that sought to let them perish.
"I was afraid," McMillan says. "I think we were all afraid. And we were outraged. It just was another attack on us, you know?
"When they passed that law, it added insult to injury. And it just really affected my self-esteem, affected my mental health, affected my emotional feelings."
Prosecutors couldn't prove that St. John could have even transmitted the virus through scratching and spitting in 1990. But that didn't stop Cook County from bringing charges against other people based on similarly bad science.
In one case, from December 2000, a man living with HIV was charged under the law after allegedly spitting blood at officers while being arrested during a domestic disturbance, records show. In November 2011, police in Oak Park charged a man with criminal transmission of HIV after he allegedly bit an officer on the thumb during an arrest and broke the skin.
Many cases also center on ex-lovers who call the police alleging that their partners hid their HIV status.
In one 1993 case, a woman was charged with attempted murder and criminal transmission of HIV after she didn't tell her husband she was living with the virus. Prosecutors explained the attempted murder charge in court documents by alleging that exposing her husband to HIV was "a substantial step toward the commission of first degree murder."
In a motion to dismiss, the woman and her attorneys argued that the law was vague and violated her due process rights. Her motion was eventually denied and she pleaded guilty to criminal transmission of HIV. In 1994, Cook County judge Richard E. Neville barred her from having unprotected sex of any kind for four years as part of her probation.
She was later found to have violated her probation after she gave birth to a child.
More recently, in 2013, Cicero police officer John Savage was charged by Cook County prosecutors after a sexual partner learned he had HIV and called the police, according to news reports of his arrest. But, like Amutavi, Savage posed virtually no risk of transmitting the virus, leaders from groups including Lambda Legal, AIDS Foundation Chicago, and the ACLU of Illinois say.
Savage ultimately pleaded guilty to a lesser charge the following year; activists say prosecutors routinely stack charges in order to secure convictions, while HIV-specific charges often go unchallenged. The Chicago Tribune recently reported that Savage eventually left law enforcement and the state of Illinois after his case was over. He could not be reached for comment.
But even amid a wave of progressive district attorneys being elected across the country, prosecutors still have little incentive to speak out against these laws or stop prosecuting these charges outright, says Kenyon Farrow, co-executive director of Partners for Dignity & Rights, previously known as the National Economic and Social Rights Initiative.
"District attorneys often have bigger political ambitions, and how they make their mark to run for mayors, governors, federal offices is by their record of how many people they prosecuted," he says.
In Cook County, prosecutors varied in how frequently they brought HIV-related charges. Former state's attorney O'Malley prosecuted 19 cases from 1992 to 1996, an average of nearly five cases a year. His successor, Dick Devine, initiated 24 cases from 1997 to 2008, an average of about two cases a year. Anita Alvarez prosecuted 16 cases from 2010 until 2016, about three cases a year and closer to O'Malley's rate.
O'Malley, Devine, and Alvarez did not respond to multiple requests for comment by presstime.
Roughly five months before Amutavi was charged, Alvarez told the Windy City Times in what was considered a landmark statement at the time that the state's HIV criminalization law "makes no sense and is clearly out of date and out of line with modern science." But that didn't deter her office from filing charges under the law.
Alvarez's office filed charges under the HIV criminalization law in May 2016, two months after her comments, and again the following November, according to court data.
Amutavi was arrested that October. Erickson, his attorney, alleges that Alvarez's office conducted a sloppy investigation into the allegations against Amutavi before the arrest.
Amutavi and his attorney both claim the principal woman who had accused him was well aware of his HIV status when she reported him to the police, and only found two other accusers after she went through his phone.
Amutavi was one of the last people Cook County officials say they have charged under the law. The origins of the measure, which was passed in 1989 during the height of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the United States and the panic that ensued, is crucial, and is reflected in the law itself.
Just two years before former Illinois state representative Penny Pullen, a Republican from Park Ridge, introduced the state's HIV criminalization bill in 1989, President Ronald Reagan tapped her for a spot on his Presidential Commission on HIV/ AIDS.
Pullen was first elected in 1977 to represent the 55th District, which at the time comprised suburbs north and west of Chicago, including Des Plaines, Park Ridge, and part of Niles. She spent 16 years in the Illinois House, eventually rising to the rank of assistant minority leader, and made a name for herself in Springfield sponsoring many controversial HIV/AIDS-related bills.
One such bill became a short-lived law, passed in 1987, requiring people to be tested for HIV before getting marriage licenses. The law earned national criticism and lasted for 21 months before being repealed by the state legislature in September 1989.
Illinois's HIV criminalization law came during a particularly critical time of the HIV/AIDS crisis in the U.S. Just two years before House Bill 1871 was passed by the state legislature, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved the toxic drug azidothymidine, originally a failed attempt at cancer treatment, as the first drug to fight HIV/ AIDS. There were 100,000 reported AIDS cases in the country at the time Illinois's law passed, according to the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services.
The state legislature eventually passed both a House and Senate version of the HIV criminalization bill, though the latter was vetoed out of redundancy. Though the bills received significant support at the time, they also had some staunch critics, according to legislative transcripts. One of the most vocal critics was representative Ellis B. Levin, a Democrat.
"What we have here is a bill that basically says, let's discriminate against people who are sick," Levin said on the House floor in June 1989. "Let's make it a crime to be sick . . . you know, at some point you need to say enough is enough."
In support of the bill, however, state representative Ron Stephens, a Republican, called it "absolutely ridiculous" to oppose Pullen's bill following Levin's testimony.
"We're not talking about a common cold here, representative," Stephens said in response to Levin. "We're talking about a disease that kills. Why don't you just understand that once and for all? Quit the demagoguery on the issue."
Then-representative Ed Petka also testified in support of the Senate version. During his testimony, Petka conjured sensational images of gay men living with HIV biting officers during arrests, claims he said he heard from a Chicago police officer he was close friends with.
Pullen was also involved with the influential American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC), an ultraconservative nonprofit of lawmakers and business leaders that sends model legislation to state governments across the country, alongside her state House seat and her role on Reagan's AIDS commission. And as Trevor Hoppe wrote in his 2017 book Punishing Disease: HIV and the Criminalization of Sickness, Pullen used her role at ALEC in particular to spread her influence on AIDS policy.
"She's not the end all be all, but she has this really instrumental place in history," says Hoppe, an assistant sociology professor at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro. "There's no one else who really played a similar kind of role in specifically promoting HIV criminal statutes."
Pullen did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
The same year Pullen introduced House Bill 1871, ALEC released a report on AIDS policy, Hoppe wrote. The report included model legislation on topics including public education, partner notification, mandatory screening of incarcerated people, and HIV criminalization.
The organization's version of an HIV criminalization statute was nearly identical to Pullen's bill in Illinois, and was first proposed by Pullen during testimony before ALEC's AIDS working group, Hoppe wrote.
But the influence of Illinois's law didn't just extend to ALEC. Hoppe wrote that lawmakers in Nevada turned to House Bill 1871 when drafting their own HIV criminalization statute. Alaska lawmakers similarly conferred with officials in Illinois when taking up their law.
The Illinois Supreme Court rejected a constitutional challenge to the law in early 1994. The American Public Health Association, the Illinois Public Health Association, and separately the AIDS Legal Council, filed briefs in the case urging the state's high court to strike down the law as unconstitutional.
"The extreme ambiguity of the law undermines educational efforts critical to limiting the spread of HIV," the health associations wrote.
But in a biting January 1994 opinion, former Justice James D. Heiple blasted claims that the law was vague and violated two defendants' rights to free speech and association. Heiple, a Republican, served on the Illinois Supreme Court for a decade beginning in 1990.
"Vagueness, like beauty, may be in the eye of the beholder," the onetime chief justice wrote. "We, however, read the statute as being sufficiently clear and explicit so that a person of ordinary intelligence need not have to guess at its meaning or application."
In 2012, the Illinois state legislature amended the HIV criminalization law to specifically require that the intent to transmit the virus be present, an effort to assuage activists pushing for reform. But critics like Davis, AIDS Foundation Chicago's policy director, say the change does little to reform the law because of the difficulty in proving intent.
And now, more than 30 years after Pullen's law was first passed in Illinois, prosecutors across the country continue to pursue cases under similar laws.
The Center for HIV Law and Policy reports that, as of last July, 28 states now have HIV-specific criminal laws and eight states have applicable sentencing enhancements. Additionally, 25 states have also used general criminal laws to prosecute people living with HIV.
Scott Schoettes, director of Lambda Legal's HIV Project, has challenged a number of HIV-centered convictions across the country.
In 2012, he helped win a ruling from New York's highest court that the saliva of a man living with HIV could not be considered a "dangerous instrument" under state law. The ruling vacated an aggravated assault conviction against David Plunkett over a 2006 incident in which he bit a police officer. At the time of his release, he had served half of a ten-year sentence.
In 2014, Schoettes helped exonerate Nick Rhoades, who had been sentenced to 25 years in Iowa prison in 2008 for not disclosing his HIV status to a sexual partner even though they had protected sex. As part of that sentence, he was also required to register as a sex offender. After Rhoades's sentence was shortened to probation, Schoettes took over his case and successfully fought to have his conviction overturned.
Schoettes is quick to point out that alongside HIV-specific criminal statutes, people living with HIV are also frequently prosecuted under general criminal laws, including Plunkett. This, Schoettes says, makes the repeal of HIV-specific statutes less effective if those efforts don't also address those general criminal laws.
Alongside the allegations themselves, Schoettes says the accompanying attention can be damaging as well. But unlike the era when these laws were passed, news coverage of contemporary allegations now live forever on the Internet, as do mugshots and oftentimes private medical information.
And as the news media cover these charges, defendants are often portrayed as malicious disease spreaders and not, as they often are, victims of stigma and circumstance, their once-private medical information now on display.
Farrow, of Partners for Dignity & Rights, says he sees such articles come up across the nation at least once a week.
"[These articles] are almost always framed around, 'This person is a kind of pariah who is out here trying to infect other people,"' says Farrow, who also recently worked as a senior editor at HIV/AIDS-focused publication The Body.
Tami Haught is the managing director of Sero Project, which aims to repeal HIV criminalization bills nationwide. She says her late husband, who was diagnosed with AIDS in 1993, struggled sig"YOU nificantly with fear that her family would force her to file charges against him under Iowa's since-reformed HIV criminalization law. She says he eventually suffered a mental breakdown.
Haught has been living with HIV for more than 27 years, and says her late husband eventually died of pneumonia, kidney failure, and complications related to AIDS. But she says the other causes of his death-like stigma, shame, and fear-are much harder to diagnose.
Haught spoke before the Iowa state legislature in 2013 and 2014 and helped update the state's HIV statute. In 2014, Iowa updated its statute to scrap a 25-year prison sentence and to allow for a tiered sentencing system, including felonies and misdemeanors, depending on the situation.
Haught says she knows of situations in which HIV criminalization laws have been used to trap people living with HIV in abusive relationships.
"These laws were put on the books to protect women," Haught says. "And actually women are at the greatest risk of prosecution or domestic violence or manipulation because of these laws, and their partners using these laws to keep them trapped."
Alongside Iowa, a handful of other states have also updated their HIV-related criminal statutes in various ways.
Most recently, in early April, Virginia updated its HIV-specific laws to require a heavier burden of proof regarding intent and actual transmission of the virus. However, state law still makes it a felony to intentionally transmit HIV, dubbed "infected sexual battery."
In late 2018, Michigan updated its HIV disclosure law to exempt from prosecution people living with HIV who are on treatment and are virally suppressed. In 2017, California downgraded from a felony to a misdemeanor knowingly exposing a sexual partner to HIV and reduced the possible prison term from three to eight years to six months.
Colorado, in 2016, repealed two of its HIV criminalization laws and significantly modified a third.
Farrow, of Partners for Dignity & Rights, particularly criticized reforms that only exempt from prosecution people who are virally suppressed, pointing to significant health disparities in the United States.
"There's kind of this false notion that everybody has equal access to HIV care, and it's just not true," he says.
And here in Illinois, it's now in the governor's hands to repeal the state's HIV criminalization law.
Until recently, Amutavi's mugshot was the first thing that appeared when searching his name on the Internet. But some news organizations, including the Chicago Tribune, have begun to offer ways for people to apply to have their mugshots taken down-finally understanding the harms caused by publishing mugshots without context.
After I heard that the Tribune offered this, I urged Amutavi to reach out. His mugshot has since been scrubbed from the Trib's website. But articles about the charges against him remain, again limiting his ability to move on completely.
If a group of state legislators has their way, however, there won't be any more charges under the law ever again.
In February 2021, Illinois state senator Sen. Robert Peters sponsored a bill to amend the 2012 criminal code to completely repeal the HIV criminalization statute and amend other HIV-related statutes. The bill recently passed both chambers of the Illinois General Assembly and awaits the governor's signature.
In an interview with the Reader and Injustice Watch, Peters says he was motivated to introduce the bill after activists approached him from the Illinois HIV Action Alliance, a coalition launched in June 2019 to end HIV criminalization in the state. He called the law and others like it the intersection of anti-Black racism and "gay panic."
"When you combine those sort of systemic prejudices with a system of incarceration that's built on top of that, you get laws like these that don't do anything for anybody," Peters says.
Just months before Illinois HIV Action Alliance went public, members sent a letter to Attorney General Kwame Raoul in March 2019 asking him to issue a formal written opinion interpreting the statute to require specific intent to transmit HIV.
"During your campaign, you spoke passionately of your long-standing commitment to criminal justice reform," the letter states. "As part of that promise, we urge you to prioritize ending unjust prosecutions of people living with HIV."
Since Peters's bill was introduced, nearly three dozen legislators, including the recently appointed Mike Simmons, Illinois's first openly gay state senator, signed on as co-sponsors. Peters says he's hopeful the bill will get the governor's signature, crediting in particular the Black, queer organizers who led the charge against the original HIV criminalization law. But he admits that even now, decades into the fight against HIV/ AIDS, progress has its limits.
"When we have floor debates, I would not be surprised if we hear some similar statements that were made in the past, brought up again," Peters says, referring to the inflammatory remarks by 86th General Assembly members who debated the original law in 1989. "And I think that it's gonna be disgusting, and nasty, but that is not the majority of voices, I believe, in our chamber and under the dome."
But even if Peters's law passes, relief for people previously charged under the law, like Amutavi, is limited. He left a fulfilling career, had his name, face, and HIV status spread all across the country. The ordeal had irreversible impacts on him, and his family.
And despite all he has endured, maybe even in spite of it all, Amutavi looks ahead with purpose. I asked him if had anything to say to the woman who led the allegations against him.
"She didn't bury me," he says. "She planted me.
Additional reporting and research by Adeshina Emmanuel, Injustice Watch.
This story was co-produced by the Chicago Reader and Injustice Watch as part of The Circuit, a joint project from Injustice Watch and Better Government Association, in partnership with the civic tech consulting firm DataMade. The Circuit was made possible with support from the McCormick Foundation. Learn more about the project here.
Sidebar CAN'T REALLY LEGISLATE AROUND STIGMA," SAYS AISHA DAVIS, DIRECTOR OF POLICY AT AIDS FOUNDATION CHICAGO. "THEN, WHEN YOU ADD TO THAT THE IMPLICATIONS AROUND RACE, AROUND GENDER, IDENTITY, AROUND JUSTTHE PERCEPTION OF SOMEONE WHEN THEY'VE DEEN CHARGED WITH THIS, IT MEANS THAT RUCK AND LATINX FOLKS ARE GOING TO RE TARGETED EVEN MORE."

Subject: Human immunodeficiency virus--HIV; Acquired immune deficiency syndrome--AIDS; Women; Disease transmission

Location: Cook County Illinois; Chicago Illinois; United States--US; Illinois

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: WHEN CRIME GOES VIRAL

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 36

Issue: 3

Pages: 8-11

Publication year: 2021

Publication date: Jun 10, 2021

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 3055998822

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/when-crime-goes-viral/docview/3055998822/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jun 10, 2021

Last updated: 2024-05-17

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Chicago Foundation for Women virtually holds 2020 Impact Awards

Author: Reilly, Emily

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chicago-foundation-women-virtually-holds-2020/docview/2434252091/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=35&amp;issue=23&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2020-08-05&amp;atitle=Chicago+Foundation+for+Women+virtually+holds+2020+Impact+Awards&amp;au=Reilly%2C+Emily&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=35&amp;issue=23&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2020-08-05&amp;atitle=Chicago+Foundation+for+Women+virtually+holds+2020+Impact+Awards&amp;au=Reilly%2C+Emily&amp;id=doi:

Full text: The Chicago Foundation for Women (CFW) virtually held the 2020 Impact Awards on July 23. CFW President/CEO Felicia Davis hosted the event and awarded the honorees.
Davis began by explaining the importance of the Impact Awards: They uplift the good work of the awardees and acknowledge the changes happening because of their influence.
Wendy Pollack, who started the Women's Law and Policy Initiative at the Shriver Center, won the founders award. She gave a summary of her background and work that she's done for the Chicago women's carpenters, which became Chicago Women in Trades. She also spoke about her career in law, specifically litigation, and how she continuously works to improve federal and state laws and policies.
The Pioneer Award went to Christina Frasik, who spoke about her reason for co-founding Students for Reproductive Justice (SRJ), which addresses limited interpretations of healthcare at Loyola University.
"I would also like to acknowledge that reproductive justice is not optional, but a requirement of any work in the reproductive healthcare space," said Frasik. "Without this framework founded by Black and low-income individuals, your sole focus would lie with the erosion of access to abortion and contraception in the [United States]."
Neha Gill spoke about winning the Impact Award for her work toward gender equality at Apna Ghar, a human rights outreach organization. "I urge us all today to take very intentional steps toward gender injustice by examining the inequalities all around us in every sphere," said Gill.
Collette Payne spoke next upon winning the Impact Award for her work at the Visible Voices program for Chicago Legal Advocacy for Incarcerated Mothers (CLAIM) and her work at Cabrini-Green Legal Aid. She spoke about how her own experience with incarceration inspired her to become an advocate for change.
Imani Rupert-Gordon received the Impact Award for her past role as the executive director Affinity Community Services, which facilitates resources for LGBTQ+ individuals. Rupert-Gordon, who now heads the National Center for Lesbian Rights, spoke about how the criminal-justice system disproportionately affects Black and queer people, and how it needs to be examined.
"We need to be critical of the people that benefit from these systems, not from the people who are marginalized by them," said Rupert-Gordon.
Christian Snow received the Reverend Willie Ta-plin Barrow Emerging Leaders Award on behalf of Assata's Daughter; that organization's work that has helped Black women and girls in Chicago regarding environmental and political advocacy.
The event ended with discussions about how the award winners' works have changed because of C0VID-19, how their efforts have shifted because of the current social movement and how domestic violence has increased because of quarantining.

Subject: Women

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Chicago Foundation for Women; NAICS: 813319

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Chicago Foundation for Women virtually holds 2020 Impact Awards

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 35

Issue: 23

Pages: 11

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Aug 5, 2020

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2434252091

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chicago-foundation-women-virtually-holds-2020/docview/2434252091/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Aug 5, 2020

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Table of Contents

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/table-contents/docview/2413986875/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=35&amp;issue=19&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=3&amp;date=2020-06-10&amp;atitle=Table+of+Contents&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=35&amp;issue=19&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=3&amp;date=2020-06-10&amp;atitle=Table+of+Contents&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Not available.

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Table of Contents

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 35

Issue: 19

Pages: 3

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Jun 10, 2020

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Tbl Of Contents

ProQuest document ID: 2413986875

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/table-contents/docview/2413986875/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jun 10, 2020

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Credits

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/credits/docview/2407599190/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=35&amp;issue=17&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=3&amp;date=2020-05-13&amp;atitle=Credits&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=35&amp;issue=17&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=3&amp;date=2020-05-13&amp;atitle=Credits&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Not available.

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Credits

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 35

Issue: 17

Pages: 3

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: May 13, 2020

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Credits

ProQuest document ID: 2407599190

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/credits/docview/2407599190/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 13, 2020

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Census 2020 is complicated for LGBTQ people, but it counts

Author: Magpantay, Glenn P

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/census-2020-is-complicated-lgbtq-people-counts/docview/2407598613/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=35&amp;issue=17&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=12&amp;date=2020-05-13&amp;atitle=Census+2020+is+complicated+for+LGBTQ+people%2C+but+it+counts&amp;au=Magpantay%2C+Glenn+P&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=35&amp;issue=17&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=12&amp;date=2020-05-13&amp;atitle=Census+2020+is+complicated+for+LGBTQ+people%2C+but+it+counts&amp;au=Magpantay%2C+Glenn+P&amp;id=doi:

Full text: By now, everyone should have received a mailing from the U.S. Census Bureau to get counted. I have complicated feelings about the census.
While the census is critically important to ensure a fair allocation of funding for services and political representation, it will not deliver the full acceptance and freedom of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer community. After all, it's a government survey. It will not capture the breadth of human experience in America today. So why are my feelings about it " complicated?
If s about me and who I am
Some aspects of my identity are reflected in the census. I'm gay. There is no census question asking about sexual orientation. Yet, the relationship question counts same-sex married spouses and unmarried partners. While being a same-sex couple is a poor proxy for sexual orientation, the 2010 census uncovered more than 700,000 same-sex couples in the United States.
I'm a dad of an adopted African-American child. Many LGBTQ people build families through adoption. The census counts transracial families. In fact, every year census data is used to allocate $8 Billion for foster care and adoption assistance that can help queers start families.
But it doesn't reflect my community
At the same time, my community is erased. Trans and gender non-conforming people must respond to a binary sex question. They must choose between their sex assigned at birth or how they identity to-day. The census asks about biology, not identity, and today while Facebook has more than 52 genders, the U.S. government only has two. It sucks.
Even India, Nepal, Pakistan, and Washington and Oregon states recognize a third gender. I and my organization, the National Queer Asian Pacific Islander Alliance (NQAPIA), have urged the Census Bureau to recognize all of our community.
If s critically important
In the midst of the C0-VID 19 pandemic, health care is especially critical. The census is used to allocate $311 Billion in medical assistance annually, according to the George Washington University Institute for Public Policy. More resources flow to where there is greater need based on the relative size of the population.
I teach a class on Asian American queerness at Hunter College CUNY. So many of my students benefit from the $29 billion in financial aid (Pell Grants) for college every year.
I came out in the 1980s, at the height of the AIDS crisis. When I was in ACT UP, I fought hard to stop the spread of HIV/AIDS. The census continues to be used to allocate $645 Million in HIV funding.
I could go on and recount the importance of an accurate census:
-$457 million for community mental health services
-$133 million for domestic violence prevention programs that guard against same-sex intimate-partner violence
-$48 million for community arts programs and for queer and trans artists
-$4.7 mMillion to prevent abuse, neglect and exploitation of elders
The more people who respond to the Census, the more likely resources will flow to under-resourced communities.
If s about political power and influence
But for me the most important aspect of the Census is the political influence that the data drives. The census can be a check on the outsized political influence that some intolerant states command when apportioning congressional seats among the states based on population.
Census data is also used to redraw Congressional, State Legislative and City Council district boundaries to make them equal in population. Sure, some districts can be gerrymandered. But voting rights advocates can also use the data to draw districts that give communities of color, and those who have be traditionally underrepresented, a voice in the halls of power.
If s mandatory and ensuring safety
The census is required by law. People can be fined $100 for not responding. Federal law also ensures that personal information is private and may not be shared with the immigration service, IRS, or law enforcement.
I am a lawyer. I reviewed the law and was delighted to find that the confidentiality protections have been upheld and strengthened by the courts. Yet, even in light of the strict penalties for those who violate the protections, I am still concerned.
NQAPIA is monitoring the census to keep our community safe. We have lawyers ready to sue if there are breaches and who are available to answer questions. You can report problem to us at http://bit. ly/2ULyiLy.
The way I see it, getting LGBTQ people to participate in the census is ultimately about harm reduction. The data collected inherently underrepresents the multiplicity of our identities. It can feel reductive and often dehumanizing, but it is necessary because of the very real implications towards how the government will allocate resources and representation. The census holds a lasting impact. To be missed is to be gone for the next ten years.
Let's be counted.
Glenn D. Magpantay is a longtime civil-rights lawyer who led community education and advocacy efforts for Census 2000 and 2010. He is executive director of the National Queer Asian Pacific Islander Alliance (NQAPIA)-a federation of LGBT Asian American, South Asian, Southeast Asian, and Pacific Islander organizations.
To take the census, visit 2020Census.gov.

Subject: Sexual orientation; Pacific Islander people; Human immunodeficiency virus--HIV; Asian Americans; Domestic violence; Acquired immune deficiency syndrome--AIDS; Politics; Census of Population; LGBTQ people

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Bureau of the Census; NAICS: 926110

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Census 2020 is complicated for LGBTQ people, but it counts

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 35

Issue: 17

Pages: 12

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: May 13, 2020

Section: viewpoints

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2407598613

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/census-2020-is-complicated-lgbtq-people-counts/docview/2407598613/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 13, 2020

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

'Tiger King' rules television

Author: Nunn, Jerry

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tiger-king-rules-television/docview/2405316351/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=35&amp;issue=15&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=18&amp;date=2020-04-15&amp;atitle=%27Tiger+King%27+rules+television&amp;au=Nunn%2C+Jerry&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=35&amp;issue=15&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=18&amp;date=2020-04-15&amp;atitle=%27Tiger+King%27+rules+television&amp;au=Nunn%2C+Jerry&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Headnote REVIEW
Netflix had perfect timing when the media company released Tiger King: Murder, Mayhem and Madness on March 20. Because of a pandemic that trapped television viewers at home like animals in cages, audiences had time to cram down a seven-episode story arc about the world of big-cat owners.
The welcome distraction left some people astounded and many ravenous for more. Sex, drugs and country music are all part of a new zoo revue that covers animal parks and various owners' interactions with each other throughout the years.
Co-producers/co-creators Eric Goode and Rebecca Chaiklin wanted a big-cat version of the award-winning documentary Blackfish and instead ended up with a very entertaining character study. There's something for everyone in Tiger King-and that's why it resonates so well with viewers.
The LGBT community pops up throughout the documentary. The star of Tiger King- Joseph Maldonado-Passage, also known as "Joe Exotic"-is a gay, gun-toting polygamist zoo owner hungry for fame. Exotic's past husbands are a mix of gay, bisexual and straight. One of Exotic's employees, Saff Saffery, is trans and prefers he/his pronouns. Unfortunately, in Tiger King, Saffery not only loses a limb, but is identified incorrectly several times.
After traveling to the Big Cat Rescue in Florida myself, I noticed how small-and far away from the public-the cages were located. In the program, owner Carole Baskin makes the case that the park is helping abused and abandoned big cats while charging customers to enter. If this is true, then she is making a killing along the way, after starting the project in 1992. Baskin is a fascinating character in Tiger King; she was ahead of the curve in terms of social media and even made a virtual-reality zoo last year. Is she a gentle animal lover or an evil genius who killed her husband in some way? These are questions that have both hooked viewers and have resulted in a new investigation against her.
Exotic is still behind bars and loving the attention-while serving 22 years. Now there's even talk of a possible presidential pardon for his sentence.
Lovers of animals have been skittish about watching the series, although another doc- Don't F**k With Cats: Hunting An Internet Killer, on the same platform-is much tougher to watch. The focus is mainly on the human subjects, and that's where Tiger King only scratches the surface of the real problem. While it can be fun to see the eccentric and vengeful cast of characters in Tiger King, the series really lost sight of being about the animals. Don't worry "all you cool cats and kittens," there's still meat on the bone, with a storyline of misused employees and an underworld of crime. The creators of Tiger King didn't complete everything they set out to do, but they have made a highly watchable tiger tale that is must-see TV.
The catty adventure continues with The Tiger King and I, a new after-show that was released April 12.

Subject: Domestic violence; Animals

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: 'Tiger King' rules television

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 35

Issue: 15

Pages: 18

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Apr 15, 2020

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 2405316351

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tiger-king-rules-television/docview/2405316351/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Apr 15, 2020

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Gay sign-language interpreter on press conferences, LGBTQs

Author: Nunn, Jerry

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gay-sign-language-interpreter-on-press/docview/2400099472/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=35&amp;issue=14&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2020-04-01&amp;atitle=Gay+sign-language+interpreter+on+press+conferences%2C+LGBTQs&amp;au=Nunn%2C+Jerry&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=35&amp;issue=14&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2020-04-01&amp;atitle=Gay+sign-language+interpreter+on+press+conferences%2C+LGBTQs&amp;au=Nunn%2C+Jerry&amp;id=doi:

Full text: As a child, Michael Spencer Albert never knew how important his hands would be one day as an interpreter for the deaf community. He was born in Edgewater Hospital and grew up in Skokie.
In college, he majored in psychology at the University of Illinois. When he needed some elective credits, he took a sign-language class for fun. The following summer he started an internship with the Human Rights Campaign in Washington, D.C. He found a deaf person looking for a roommate in a personal ad and lived with him for a year; this was during the student protests in 1988 at Gallaudet surrounding the appointment of I. King Jordan, a deaf university president. Seeing the empowerment in the deaf community sparked an interest in Albert to move in that direction for his career.
After working on his masters at Bowling Green State University in Ohio, he took a leave of absence from psychology and took an interpreter training class at Western Oregon University instead.
He began working the Chicago Hearing Society (CHS) in July 1998, and still does to this day. CHS is a division of the Anixter Center, an organization that services people with disabilities and challenges. He translates for hospitals, lawyers, meetings and conferences on a regular basis. In the past, Albert-who is out and proud-has appeared at Pride festivals and Market Days.
He has garnered much local media attention recently-especially for signing during Gov. Pritzker's COVID-19 press conferences-but said he wants the focus to remain on the virus and community.
Windy City Times: Has all this attention been overwhelming?
Michael Albert: Yes. In a time of a crisis, it is good to have something else to focus on to take their mind off of constant barrage of bad news. Interpreters can give people something else to look at. I have been there every single day since the beginning of Gov. Pritzker's press conferences. It has been challenging.
WCT: What do you like about working for the Chicago Hearing Society?
MA: Any interpreting that I do that generates revenue is going to other people that are deaf and hard of hearing, also to youth services and domestic violence survivors or victims of crime. There are a lot of services that are supported by our work. It's one of the things that has kept me loyal to that agency. There's not been a moment where I regretted devoting my career to them.
WCT: How difficult is technical sign language?
MA: Sign language is like any other language. When technical innovations arrive or slang comes around, languages struggle to adapt to that. For example, when "email" came out, there were several signs for [that term]. Over time, the deaf community arrived at a certain sign that would be generally accepted.
Same for the word "transgender"-it was decided at a transgender conference what would be the most appropriate sign.
Sometimes it happens more organically by sharing information among deaf people and agreeing on a sign. With technical terms like "coronavirus," it's a broad term and means a lot of different things.
WCT: So things are always evolving? MA: It's an evolving language. If I'm interpreting at a conference of medical professionals, I will translate it much differently than if I am describing it to an 80-year-old grandmother going to a doctor's appointment. If I spell out the letters "EKG," they may not know what that means, so I have explain how it's attached to someone's body and I may draw the jagged heartbeat pattern. I really try to match my client.
It's very complicated, especially at these press conferences with a variety of clients out there that I can't see. I am trying to use sign language that is the most accessible to the greatest number of people.
WCT: Do you ever want to ask Pritzker to slow down?
MA: Pritzker is a very well-paced speaker. I have really been impressed the last few weeks with his leadership. When he speaks with passion, I try to convey this in my interpretation.
He speaks with anger at the government sometimes and speaks with empathy for the citizens of Illinois. Backstage, I can see this isn't just lip service. He is really stepping it up.
WCT: Do you spend much time with the speakers before going on TV?
MA: The governor and Illinois Department Public Health Director Dr. Ngozi Ezike generally come in at the last minute. I've exchanged pleasantries, but I was flattered and touched that he recognized me publicly.
I do have time when we are backstage with other people, and they are sometimes nice to share their notes with me about what they are going to say.
WCT: Do you hear from people on social media about the job you are doing?
MA: I am hearing from a lot of people. There are comments that I have stopped reading. There are hearing people that have said a lot of wonderful things. I take their comments with a grain of salt, because they don't know the language.
What bolsters me to continue [are] the wonderful comments from the deaf community and the support from my fellow interpreting colleagues.
Chicago is a unique place with a supportive interpreting community and a deaf community that collaborates with us pretty well. I've seen other cities where interpreters were divisive. This whole recent experience has made me incredibly proud.
WCT: How did you prepare to be on TV with wardrobe?
MA: Stores were closing. I don't do a lot of dressy work, maybe a bar mitzvah or a funeral. I had four colors of dress shirts and now this press conference is going on every day. I try to mix and match.
WCT: What was your favorite concert to sign?
MA: My favorite was Olivia Newton-John, at Market Days.
Music interpreting is controversial in our field. There are interpreters who differ philosophically on how we should handle music.
I want to embody the rhythm and give the lyrics. If Eric Clapton is doing a guitar solo, then I just turn toward him and watch him. In the modern music interpretation world, some will relish a pitch or show instrumentation. I think that looks like an air guitar and not the approach that I care to take. It draws focus from the artist to me. Some deaf people love it, though. You may have seen some of those interpreters go viral.
WCT: What's your new favorite word to sign? MA: "Coronavirus." "Pandemic" has also become very popular. I combine the sign for disease and spreading out an area.
WCT: What do you recommend for aspiring interpreters?
MA: Find deaf people and interact with them. Like any language, you are only going to learn it with native users of the language. People can study books, but there are a variety of styles to learn. They do have to go to school and learn the professional standards and ethical code that we abide by. To become certified you have to have a bachelors degree, but not necessarily in interpreting.
WCT: What trends do you see for interpreters?
MA: There's a shift in my profession for video remote work. We provide interpreting services to computers. College students are learning from home so we provide that service for them.
WCT: What can you tell people about the LG-BTQ deaf community?
MA: They are like everyone else. Some have hearing partners, some of them have deaf partners and some have no partners. I think Chicago has the same amount as anywhere else. People just notice them more when they are in a group signing at the bars. It is very diverse here, just like the rest of the gay community.
WCT: What's a common misunderstanding between the deaf and hearing communities?
MA: "Hearing-impaired" is not used anymore. It's okay to say "deaf" and "hard of hearing," but "hearing-impaired" makes the deaf community bristle. The description "hearing-impaired" was invented by hearing people saying that someone is broken and that's all they are. "Deaf" is a cultural identification and the community finds using "hearing-impaired" as diminishing.
"Deaf and dumb" or "deaf-mute" are also irritating terms, so don't use them-ever!
For more information on CHS, visit Chicago-HearingSociety.org.

Subject: Press conferences; Deafness; Sign language; Coronaviruses; Interpreters; COVID-19; Transgender persons; Disease transmission; Hearing loss

Location: Chicago Illinois; Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Gay sign-language interpreter on press conferences, LGBTQs

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 35

Issue: 14

Pages: 8

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Apr 1, 2020

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

ProQuest document ID: 2400099472

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gay-sign-language-interpreter-on-press/docview/2400099472/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Apr 1, 2020

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Patin at Hyde Park through Feb. 28

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/patin-at-hyde-park-through-feb-28/docview/2388305430/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=35&amp;issue=11&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=21&amp;date=2020-02-19&amp;atitle=Patin+at+Hyde+Park+through+Feb.+28&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=35&amp;issue=11&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=21&amp;date=2020-02-19&amp;atitle=Patin+at+Hyde+Park+through+Feb.+28&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Hyde Park Art Center, 5020 S. Cornell Ave., is welcoming Nikki Patin as its new flex space resident through Feb. 28, 2020; she will be developing ongoing performative work combining text, music and movement.
Patin is a writer, performer and educator whose practice addresses issues of body image, sexual assault and the needs of the LGBTQ community. Also, she is the creator of Surviving the Mic-an organization dedicated to creating safe spaces for the creation and telling of stories of survivors of all kinds of trauma, with a special focus on Black- and female-identified survivors of sexual and domestic violence.
Patin was featured on the fourth season of HBO's Def Poetry Jam; has been one of Windy City Times 30 under 30 honrees; and took the gold medal in the poetry-slam competition at the 2006 Gay Games.
See HydeParkArt.org.

Subject: Sex crimes

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Patin at Hyde Park through Feb. 28

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 35

Issue: 11

Pages: 21

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Feb 19, 2020

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 2388305430

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/patin-at-hyde-park-through-feb-28/docview/2388305430/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 19, 2020

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Guide to the LGBTQs

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/guide-lgbtqs/docview/2388304561/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=35&amp;issue=11&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=15&amp;date=2020-02-19&amp;atitle=Guide+to+the+LGBTQs&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=35&amp;issue=11&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=15&amp;date=2020-02-19&amp;atitle=Guide+to+the+LGBTQs&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Headnote ELECTIONS
This year's primary elections will feature a record number of openly LGBT candidates throughout Illinois. See the complete list at www.WindyCityTimes.com. They include:
1. Karla Bailey-Smith
Race: Illinois state representative (88th District)
Website: Unite88.org
The skinny: Bailey-Smith was born in Green-castle, Indiana. She earned an undergraduate degree at Illinois Wesleyan University in 1990 and a graduate degree from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1993. Bailey-Smith's career experience includes working as a painter and scenic artist.
2. Deidre Baumann
Race: Cook County Circuit Court (C. Sheehan vacancy)
Website: DeidreForJudge.com
The skinny: Baumann has more than 25 years representing people against the government and large corporations, and was lead counsel in the Burr Oak Cemetery litigation. She is currently president of the Suburban Bar Coalition, and serves on the boards of directors for the Lesbian and Gay Bar Association of Chicago and for the Decalogue Foundation.
3. Kelly Cassidy
Race: Illinois state representative (14th District)
Website: citizensforcassidy.com
The skinny: Cassidy, who recently wed activist Candice Gingrich, has served her district since 2011. Seeking to get re-elected, Cassidy is the only openly lesbian member of the General Assembly.
4. Ty Cratic
Race: Illinois state representative (9th District)
Website: TyCratic.com
The skinny: Cratic (a onetime Windy City Times 30 Under 30 honoree) has been heavily involved in politics for quite some time, although this is his first time running. He is a native Chicagoan and has earned his B.A. degree in political science from Southern Illinois University. Among other accomplishments, Cratic served as senior staff on two Congressional campaigns in Ohio and Georgia, and has worked in the office of Alderman Jason C. Ervin, of Chicago's 28th Ward.
5. James Patrick Crawley
Race: Circuit Court of Cook County (Roti vacancy)
Website: crawleyforjudge.com
The skinny: Openly gay Crawley has been endorsed by Personal PAC as well as a number of other organizations. He previously served on the boards of Jane Addams Hull House and AIDS Care.
6. Michelle Darbro
Race: Illinois state representative (20th District)
Website: DarbroForRep.com
The skinny: A Norwood Park resident, Darbro is a career firefighter and paramedic who is a 2015 inductee to the University of Chicago Athletic Hall of Fame.
7. James T. Derico Jr.
Race: Cook County Circuit Court (Coghlan vacancy)
Website: Derico4Judge.com
The skinny: Derico is a 1982 graduate of the University of Notre Dame and a 1985 graduate of the University of Pennsylvania Law School. In December 2018, the Illinois Supreme Court appointed him to serve as a Circuit Court judge for the Circuit Court of Cook County.
8. Michael Forti
Race: Cook County Judicial Circuit Courtve (8th Subcircuit/Gubin vacancy)
Website: None
The skinny: Forti is a a judge for the 8th Sub-circuit of the Cook County Judicial Circuit Court in Illinois. However, his current term expires Dec. 7, necessitating a run. He faces no opponents in this race.
9. Jimmy Garfield
Race: Illinois state representative (12th District)
Website: JimmyGatfield.com
The skinny: Garfield, an attorney, is running on a platform focused on reform in Springfield, and has been vocal about his opposition to longtime House Speaker Michael Madigan.
10. Greg Harris
Race: Illinois state representative (13th District)
Website: GregHarris.org
The skinny: Harris who was chief co-sponsor of SB10, the legislation that brought about marriage equality in Illinois has a district that includes several North Side neighborhoods. Harris (who was first elected to the state House in 2006, and is the first openly gay person in Illinois to become a member of legislative leadership) ran unopposed in the March 20 primary.
11. Marty Malone
Race: Illinois state representative (12th District)
Website: martymalone.com
The skinny: Lake View resident Marty Malone is making his first bid for office as one of four openly gay men vying to be the 12th District's House representative. His platform focuses in large part on property tax reform.
12. Mary Cay Marubio
Race: Cook County Circuit Court (O'Brien vacancy)
Website: JudgeMarubio.com
The skinny: Mary Catherine "Mary Cay" Marubio is currently an associate judge for the Circuit Court of Cook County. Elected by her peers in 2016, she is currently assigned to the Pretrial Division and previously served in the Domestic Relations Division. Also, Marubio is president of the Alliance of Illinois Judges-whose mission is to promote and encourage respect and unbiased treatment for LGBTQ individuals as they relate to the judiciary, the legal profession and the administration of justice.
13. Denika McMillen
Race: Illinois state representative (41st District)
Website: McMillen4U.com
The skinny: McMillen is a licensed clinical social worker and resident of Naperville. Since moving to Naperville in 2016 with her wife and their three children, McMillen has been an active member of the Diversity Advisory Committee for District 203, Indivisible Naperville and other groups, and was an original board member of the Naper Pride organization.
14. Jacob Meister
Race: Cook County clerk of the Circuit Court Social media site: "Jacob Meister," on Facebook The skinny: Branding himself a progressive reformer, Meister has been practicing law in Chicago for almost three decades. He is also the founder of The Civil Rights Agenda, an LGBTQ-advocacy organization.
15. Ken Mejia-Beal
Race: Illinois state representative (42nd District)
Website: KMBfor42.com
The skinny: First-time political candidate in the DuPage County district, Meija-Beal's platform centers on three major issues he intends to change in his district: halting any revenue increases on alcohol, establishing simpler distribution of affordable insulin and HIV medication, and ending puppy mills in Illinois.
16. Yoni Pizer
Race: Illinois state representative (12th District) Website: yoniforl2.com
The skinny: Pizer, a longtime Lake View resident, is a realtor/developer who, with husband Brad Lippitz, has been intensely involved in politics for years, hosting fundraisers for politicians such as Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot and president candidate Pete Buttigieg. Pizer was recently named to serve as the acting representative of the district following the departure of Sara Fei-genholtz for the state Senate.
17. Ryan Podges
Race: Illinois state representative (12th District)
Website: RyanPodges.com
The skinny: Yes, there are four gay men running to succeed Sara Feigenholtz for this Illinois House seat. Podges, a Chicago attorney, feels there should be more LGBTQ representation in politics, and that the biggest problem for LGBTQs is access to proper healthcare.
18. Jill Rose Quinn
Race: Cook County Court judge (K. Sheehan vacancy)
Website: VoteJillRoseQuinn.com
The skinny: Quinn, a transgender attorney, has private practice experience includes working at general legal practices in Chicago, Bloomington, Lombard, Glen ELLyn and Franklin Park. She has also gotten the backing of several key political figures, including Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot.
19. Lamont Robinson
Race: Illinois state representative (5th District)
Website: VoteLamontRobinson.com
The skinny: Robinson-who runs two Chicago Allstate Insurance offices, in Bronzeville and Humboldt Park-made history as the first openly gay African-American person in the General Assembly. During this primary, he is running unopposed.
20. Brian Sager
Race: Illinois state representative (63rd District)
Website: People4BrianSager.com
The skinny: Sager is a retired college professor and administrator who has been the mayor of Woodstock since 2005. Among his top legislative priorities are economic and job growth as well political ethics and early childhood education.
21. Levander "Van" Smith Jr.
Race: Cook County Circuit Court (Larson vacancy)
Website: SmithJrForJudge.com
The skinny: Smith, an Oak Park resident, is waging his first campaign for Cook County Circuit Court judge-but he already sits on the bench. In February 2019, the Illinois Supreme Court appointed Smith as a judge (in the domestic-violence division), with a term set to expire Dec. 7, 2020.
22. Maggie Trevor
Race: Illinois state representative (54th District) Website: http://trevorforstaterep.net/ The skinny: Trevor, who identifies as lesbian, is the only candidate in the Democratic primary- and incumbent Tom Morrison is the sole candidate in the Republican primary. Trevor was born and raised in Rolling Meadows, where her parents were among the city's original residents.
23. Emiliano Vera
Race: Illinois state representative (93rd District)
Website: VoteVeraIL.org
The skinny: Vera is running against Scott Stoll in the Democratic primary in the western Illinois district, which has Republican Norine Hammond as the incumbent. This district is one of 710 state legislative districts throughout the nation that intersects with one or more pivot counties (those that went from Obama in 2008 and 2012 to Trump in 2016).
24. Michael Weaver
Race: Circuit Court of Cook County (9th Judicial Subcircuit) Website: MichaelWeaverForJudge.com The skinny: Weaver is a partner in the trial department at the law firm McDermott Will & Emery LLP, where he is also the partner-in-charge for the LGBTQ+ Diversity and Inclusion Committee. He lives with his husband, Paul, and their pugs, Spooner and Magnum, in Chicago's Edgewater neighborhood.
25. Sam Yingling
Race: Illinois state representative (62nd District)
Website: SamYingling.com
The skinny: Grayslake resident Yingling ran unopposed in the primary for his fourth term. He is the first openly gay House member from outside metropolitan Chicago. Yingling proposed to longtime partner Lowell Jaffe at the party former Illinois Gov. Pat Quinn threw to celebrate the passage of Illinois' marriage-equality bill in 2013. (They married in 2015.)
viewpoints
Dr. Steven R. YACOVELLI

Subject: Primaries & caucuses; Local elections; Attorneys; Politics; Gays & lesbians; State elections; Multiculturalism & pluralism; State court decisions; Judges & magistrates; Social networks; Websites; Tax reform

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks Tax reform

Location: Cook County Illinois; Chicago Illinois; Illinois; United States--US

People: Lightfoot, Lori E

Company / organization: Name: Supreme Court-Illinois; NAICS: 922110

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Guide to the LGBTQs

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 35

Issue: 11

Pages: 15-16

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Feb 19, 2020

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 2388304561

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/guide-lgbtqs/docview/2388304561/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 19, 2020

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Patin at Hyde Park through Feb. 28

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/patin-at-hyde-park-through-feb-28/docview/2353076984/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=35&amp;issue=9&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=13&amp;date=2020-01-22&amp;atitle=Patin+at+Hyde+Park+through+Feb.+28&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=35&amp;issue=9&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=13&amp;date=2020-01-22&amp;atitle=Patin+at+Hyde+Park+through+Feb.+28&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Hyde Park Art Center, 5020 S. Cornell Ave., is welcoming Nikki Patin as its new flex space resident through Feb. 28, 2020; she will be developing ongoing performative work combining text, music and movement.
Patin is a writer, performer and educator whose practice addresses issues of body image, sexual assault and the needs of the LGBTQ community. Also, she is the creator of Surviving the Mic-an organization dedicated to creating safe spaces for the creation and telling of stories of survivors of all kinds of trauma, with a special focus on Black- and female-identified survivors of sexual and domestic violence.
Patin was featured on the fourth season of HBO's Def Poetry Jam; has been one of Windy City Times 30 under 30 honrees; and took the gold medal in the poetry-slam competition at the 2006 Gay Games. See HydeParkArt.org.

Subject: Sex crimes

Company / organization: Name: Hyde Park Art Center; NAICS: 712110; Name: Windy City Times; NAICS: 513110

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Patin at Hyde Park through Feb. 28

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 35

Issue: 9

Pages: 13

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Jan 22, 2020

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2353076984

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/patin-at-hyde-park-through-feb-28/docview/2353076984/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jan 22, 2020

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Levander Smith Jr.: Out judicial candidate on status, campaign

Author: Davis, Andrew

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/levander-smith-jr-out-judicial-candidate-on/docview/2343015356/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=35&amp;issue=8&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=9&amp;date=2020-01-08&amp;atitle=Levander+Smith+Jr.%3A+Out+judicial+candidate+on+status%2C+campaign&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=35&amp;issue=8&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=9&amp;date=2020-01-08&amp;atitle=Levander+Smith+Jr.%3A+Out+judicial+candidate+on+status%2C+campaign&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Headnote ELECTIONS 2020
Levander Smith Jr. is in a unique position.
It's his first campaign for Cook County Circuit Court judge-but he already sits on the bench.
In February 2019, the Illinois Supreme Court appointed Smith as a judge (in the domestic-violence division), with a term set to expire Dec. 7, 2020. Therefore, in order to retain his seat, he has to run for office (in the Larsen vacancy, so called because Judge Diane Larsen retired, paving the way for Smith to be appointed). However, it turns out that he also holds another judgeship.
Windy City Times: You're already a judge, but you're running for a vacancy.
Levander Smith Jr.: Yes. I applied for an associate judgeship in 2017; that process didn't start until 2018.1 was selected to be among the finalists and-from what I understand-for the first time in Cook County history, I tied with a guy for the last position (the 17th slot). I again applied for an associate judgeship and I waited patiently for that round to take hold again-and then I was called in February [2019] to fill a vacancy for someone who retired during her six-year term. So I'm completing her term, but I have to be in that number, so to speak [laughs], in order to keep my position for the next six years as a circuit-court judge.
In the process of campaigning for this circuit-court position, I was blessed to not only make the short list for the associate round but also to get an associate position, so I [was sworn in] on Jan. 6 as an associate judge. I know it's a bit confusing. [Laughs] And if I win the primary in March, I'll be back on my way to being a circuit-court judge.
WCT: So how does that hierarchy work?
LSJ: Circuit-court judges are elected by the people; associate judges are selected by circuit-court judges-so I did vote for myself. [Laughs] It's weird, I know.
The [circuit-court judges] make a little more money and, more importantly, have more voting power.
WCT: Your website says you've "[focused] most of his career fighting to protect children and families." Do you believe a judge can be an advocate?
LSJ: No-a judge is not an advocate. That phrase is from when I was an attorney. I worked for DCFS.
[Advocacy] is one of the temptations to overcome when you're a new judge. You want to advocate certain cases and people, but you must remain neutral. When it boils down to it, it's about the law and the facts of the case.
WCT: How did your Victory Fund endorsement come about? [Note: The Victory Fund endorses LGBTQ political candidates.]
LSJ: That's another blessing. [Laughs] I was advised to apply and completed the application process and-lo, and behold-there were a couple phone interviews, and I was selected. I was so happy to receive that endorsement because I knew that one of my colleagues received the endorsement as well, and I was so happy for her.
WCT: What do you think are the most significant issues affecting the LGBTQ community?
LSJ: Well, I sit in domestic-violence court and I see a number of same-sex couples there as well as members of the trans community. The worst violence I've ever seen has been with [LGBTQ] couples. The threats are so pervasive with members of the trans community.
WCT: This is your initial campaign. Whafs been the most surprising thing so far?
LSJ: [Laughs] In addition to the amount of time and money spent? The lack of sleep. But it's all good because I get to meet a lot of good people. People are fundamentally good, even though you hear so much on the news.
WCT: You're running against two other people in the Democratic primary. Whafs your biggest advantage in this race, and whafs your biggest disadvantage?
LSJ: One advantage-which I just discovered a few days ago-is that I'm listed first on the ballot. I'm told that there have been studies done that show that people tend to vote for the person listed first. I also think I stand out in that I offer more diversity than my opponents, being a man of color who is openly gay.
My biggest disadvantage? That I'm a man of color. I've seen a lack of victories for people of color county-wide.
Smith's website is at SmithJrForJudge.com.

Subject: Primaries & caucuses; Violence; Local elections; Endorsements; State court decisions; Judges & magistrates

Location: Cook County Illinois; Illinois; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Supreme Court-Illinois; NAICS: 922110; Name: Windy City Times; NAICS: 513110

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Levander Smith Jr.: Out judicial candidate on status, campaign

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 35

Issue: 8

Pages: 9

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Jan 8, 2020

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

ProQuest document ID: 2343015356

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/levander-smith-jr-out-judicial-candidate-on/docview/2343015356/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jan 8, 2020

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

letters

Author: Rio, Linda

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/letters/docview/2305515825/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=35&amp;issue=1&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2019-10-02&amp;atitle=letters&amp;au=Rio%2C+Linda&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=35&amp;issue=1&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2019-10-02&amp;atitle=letters&amp;au=Rio%2C+Linda&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Attorneys needed
Dear Editor:
According to the report "The Justice Gap," low-income Americans receive no or inadequate legal help for 86 percent for their non-criminal legal problems. These individuals include senior citizens, veterans and those with disabilities. They may be experiencing housing problems or domestic violence, or they may be trying to obtain veterans' benefits, disability benefits or child support. Currently, there are not enough volunteer attorneys in Illinois to help them.
This shortage of pro bono attorneys not only affects the number of low-income or disadvantaged people served, but also the disposition of justice. Studies consistently show that the outcome of contested matters often turns on whether a person has an attorney.
The Pro Bono Network (PBN) has been working since 2011 to combat this shortage by expanding the pool of attorneys available to represent those who cannot afford legal services. PBN recruits, trains, places and supports lawyers who want to be of service but have limitations on their availability or resources. These include attorneys who are on career breaks, have retired, or are solo practitioners. The attorneys can work from their home or at a number of locations throughout Cook and DuPage counties. Malpractice insurance is provided.
For more information or questions, email sheila. pont@pro-bono-network.org.
Linda Rio
Pro Bono Network
Executive Director

Subject: Attorneys; Low income groups; Shortages

Business indexing term: Subject: Shortages

Location: Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: letters

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 35

Issue: 1

Pages: 10

Publication year: 2019

Publication date: Oct 2, 2019

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 2305515825

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/letters/docview/2305515825/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 2, 2019

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Credits

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/credits/docview/2305489514/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=35&amp;issue=1&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2019-10-02&amp;atitle=Credits&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=35&amp;issue=1&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2019-10-02&amp;atitle=Credits&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Not available.

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Credits

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 35

Issue: 1

Pages: 10

Publication year: 2019

Publication date: Oct 2, 2019

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Credits

ProQuest document ID: 2305489514

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/credits/docview/2305489514/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 2, 2019

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Youth group hosts gender-expansive services symposium

Author: Maxwell, Carrie

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/youth-group-hosts-gender-expansive-services/docview/2239018043/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=34&amp;issue=27&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=20&amp;date=2019-05-22&amp;atitle=Youth+group+hosts+gender-expansive+services+symposium&amp;au=Maxwell%2C+Carrie&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=34&amp;issue=27&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=20&amp;date=2019-05-22&amp;atitle=Youth+group+hosts+gender-expansive+services+symposium&amp;au=Maxwell%2C+Carrie&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Illinois Collaboration on Youth (ICOY) held a daylong gender expansive services symposium May 13 at the Chicago Teachers Union. The day focused on how girls and gender non-conforming youth are impacted by the juvenile-justice system.
One of the breakout sessions under the Pathways into the Juvenile Justice System for Girls and Gender Non-Conforming Youth umbrella was "Homelessness, The Sex Trade and Survival 'Crimes.'"
ICOY Trauma Specialist Eilene Ladson moderated the session, which featured panelists such as Broadway Youth Center Director Latonya Maley, University of Illinois-Chicago Sociology & Gender and Women's Studies Associate Professor Dr. Laurie Schaffner, artist/community advocate Antonio Gray and Youth Empowerment Performance Project (YEPP) Community Engagement Coordinator Ka'Riel Gaiter.
Ladson asked the panel about the connection that homelessness, the sex trade and survival crimes have with each other.
Gray spoke about being a transient youth who did not engage in the sex trade, emphasizing that systemic oppression is why some people become homeless and engage in both the sex trade and survival crimes-due to the lack of resources, oppressive policies and lack of knowledge and structure. Gray explained what survival crimes are, including robbery, hopping the turnstiles at CTA stops and other coping mechanisms young people use to survive.
Maley said young people experiencing homelessness turn to the sex trade and survival crimes to meet their basic needs. She said the juvenilejustice system taking them into custody perpetuates the cycle of homelessness and poverty-and that leads them to do more things that cause them to keep going in and out of the system. Maley explained that many young people experience homelessness due to unsupportive parents so they take the risk of living on the streets or couch surfing and dropping out of school.
Gaiter explained that homelessness leads to survival skills that are not translated to the wider world and that makes it harder for those people to navigate the rest of the world. He said these youth's development is interrupted due to them experiencing homelessness and that can affect them for the rest of their lives unless they get the support they need.
Schaffner spoke about the higher number of queer and disabled youth who experience homelessness compared to the wider population. She calls it the juvenile legal system not the juvenile-justice system because it is not set up to help young people. Schaffner explained that she interviewed over 250 youths experiencing homelessness in Chicago and they said they engage in drug dealing, robbing, trespassing, loitering and the sex trade. She said places of business even call the authorities on them for stealing electricity when they would be charging their phones.
Ladson asked about the sex trade being framed as sex trafficking where there are victims when that is not the case for everyone involved.
Gray said that, for a number of LGBTQ youth he knows who are involved in the sex trade it is empowering for them; however, he added if they had access to queer-focused resources in their neighborhoods on the South and West sides, they might not engage in it.
Gaiter explained that he was a part of the sex trade from ages 11-17, adding he did it because he was looking for a place to sleep. He also said that, for some, engaging in the trade is a way to avoid systems that may have an even more negative impact on their lives, like DCFS.
Maley spoke about beauty being a commodity and using one's body to get the resources they need to survive. She also spoke about the danger involved in street-based sex work.
The conversation also focused on policies and systems that perpetuate going into the juvenilejustice system.
Gaiter said positive changes can happen if young people are at the table while Gray explained that identifying as cisgender heterosexual white man for the most part makes one immune to having the same behavior criminalized than any other group of people.
Maley explained that the recently enacted FOSTA/SESTA law that led to a ban on sex trade ads on Craigslist and Backpage did not stop the practice, it just made it go underground.
Schaffner said the United States has a long history of laws regulating sex and none of it has worked.
The day also featured welcome addresses by LGBTQ and chronic illness communities accessibility consultant Chuck Bernsohn who spoke about respectful and kind language choices and ICOY Juvenile Justice Coordinator Bex Leon who talked about framing the conversation.
"I was glad to see the interest in the topic of gender-expansive services from across systems and communities," said Leon. "I hope this conversation will serve as an entry point for many into creating and reimagining a world without the policing and punishment of gender non-conformity-a conversation which must center the voices and perspectives of young people most affected by the juvenile-justice system. ICOY has been excited to be involved in helping to nurture this conversation as it is essential to improving outcomes for children, youth and families in Illinois."
Some of the other breakout sessions included "The School/Prison Nexus," "Domestic Violence, Abuse and Trauma," and "The Revolving Door Between Child Welfare and Juvenile Justice."
See https://www.icoyouth.org/

Subject: Trauma; Oppression; Sex industry; Homeless people; Gender; Empowerment; Juvenile justice

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US; Illinois

Company / organization: Name: University of Illinois; NAICS: 611310; Name: Teachers Union-Chicago IL; NAICS: 813930

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Youth group hosts gender-expansive services symposium

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 34

Issue: 27

Pages: 20

Publication year: 2019

Publication date: May 22, 2019

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2239018043

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/youth-group-hosts-gender-expansive-services/docview/2239018043/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 22, 2019

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Pritzker names Bennett new state human-rights director

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pritzker-names-bennett-new-state-human-rights/docview/2178087734/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=34&amp;issue=19&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=9&amp;date=2019-01-30&amp;atitle=Pritzker+names+Bennett+new+state+human-rights+director&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=34&amp;issue=19&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=9&amp;date=2019-01-30&amp;atitle=Pritzker+names+Bennett+new+state+human-rights+director&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Longtime activist and former Lambda Legal Midwest Regional Director James Bennett was named by Gov. J.B. Pritzker as the state's new Department of Human Rights director.
A statement from Pritzker noted that, during his 12-year tenure at Lambda Legal, Bennett, who is gay, was a lead strategist in the organization's Illinois and Iowa marriage campaigns and successfully fought Indiana's RFRA and their discriminatory 'religious refusal' laws.
In 2013, Bennett chaired Illinois Unites for Marriage, the statewide coalition that led the successful effort to win marriage equality in Illinois. He was inducted into the City of Chicago's Gay and Lesbian Hall of Fame (now Chicago LGBT Hall of Fame) in 2013. Bennett's final appointment is pending confirmation approval from the Illinois State Senate.
In the same announcement, Pritzker's camp also announced that longtime activist Sol Flores has been named deputy governor. Flores is the founding Executive Director of La Casa Norte, a non-profit organization established in 2002. Founded in 2002, La Casa Norte now has 80 employees and offers assistance to homeless families, single parents, victims of domestic violence and abandoned youth.

Subject: Same sex marriage; Gays & lesbians

Location: Indiana; Chicago Illinois; Iowa; Illinois; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Senate; NAICS: 921120; Name: Lambda Legal; NAICS: 541110

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Pritzker names Bennett new state human-rights director

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 34

Issue: 19

Pages: 9

Publication year: 2019

Publication date: Jan 30-Feb 12, 2019

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2178087734

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pritzker-names-bennett-new-state-human-rights/docview/2178087734/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jan 30-Feb 12, 2019

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Chicago writer explores feminist accountability, transformative justice

Author: Dewey, Charlsie

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chicago-writer-explores-feminist-accountability/docview/2178087404/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=34&amp;issue=19&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=23&amp;date=2019-01-30&amp;atitle=Chicago+writer+explores+feminist+accountability%2C+transformative+justice&amp;au=Dewey%2C+Charlsie&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=34&amp;issue=19&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=23&amp;date=2019-01-30&amp;atitle=Chicago+writer+explores+feminist+accountability%2C+transformative+justice&amp;au=Dewey%2C+Charlsie&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Headnote BOOKS
One of the biggest struggles within activist movements is that they tend to emulate the institutions and power structures they are trying to change. For instance, within the feminist movement, organizations tend to be led by white, middle-class, heterosexual women. So, how can movements break out of those structures and make real change in society?
In her new book, Feminist Accountability: Disrupting Violence & Transforming Power, Ann Russo explores this idea.
Russo, an associate professor in women's and gender studies at DePaul University, has been involved in activism for most of her life in the areas of queer, antiracist, and feminist movement building.
"A lot of my work over the last 30 to 40 years has been within movements and organizations to end interpersonal and intimate violence as well as community violence and state violence," she said.
"I felt like sometimes the work we were building, the organizations we were building, the policies we were pushing for, became more and more institutionalized over the course of the movement's work3Afrom the '60s to the 2000s. Increasingly, that institutionalization made it so that we were sometimes participating in systems that were producing the very violence we were trying to dismantle."
As an example, Russo said the more mainstream part of the feminist anti-violence movement became "really invested in the criminal legal system" by pushing for things like mandated reporting and more criminalization of different kinds of behaviors.
At the same time, she was also seeing a push in society at large towards increasing the power of the prison industrial complex and the power of the police in responding to behavior that previously hadn't been considered criminal.
Ultimately, the results were perpetrating more violence on already vulnerable communities such as people of color, immigrants, and queer and trans individuals.
"The way we were creating things often recreated the hierarchies that we were also saying we were trying to dismantle," Russo said.
She said an easy way to understand this is to consider interpersonal and intimate partner violence within LGBT relationships and the responses to dealing with that violence, mainly, calling police.
"Relying on a system that has been actively brutal to queer LGBT people, particularly queer and trans people of color or immigrant communities, the police and prison system, those are places that have produced violence against queer and trans communities, relying on them can increase the violence against people."
Russo said by relying on the criminal-justice system, which focuses on the individual, "what happens within a racist, classist and xenophobic system is the people who mostly get charged with that violence are people of color, poor people and queer, trans and gender non-binary people."
She added, "It's also a problem because a lot of people trying to face the violence by people they know and love, they don't want to go to the police or to a system that is also oppressing them. If someone is surveilling you and your community and is criminalizing you every day, and you experience violence from someone you love and care about, they [the police] aren't going to be the people you look to for safety."
Russo said she sees accountability and transformative justice as a way forward. A way to acknowledge power structures and challenge them within movements so that real change can happen. She said this form of thinking allows for creative approaches outside of the criminal legal system. Russo envisions a world where communities can work outside of the criminal legal system and prison industrial complex to hold the individual who has caused harm accountable but more importantly, address the system that created the environment for that violence in the first place and disrupt it.
Russo will be at Women & Children Firs, 5233 N. Clark St., on Friday, Feb. 8, at 7 p.m. Her book is available through NYU Press, Amazon, Target and other retailers.

Subject: Feminism; Domestic violence; Minority & ethnic groups; Accountability

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Power, Ann

Company / organization: Name: DePaul University; NAICS: 611310

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Chicago writer explores feminist accountability, transformative justice

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 34

Issue: 19

Pages: 23

Publication year: 2019

Publication date: Jan 30-Feb 12, 2019

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 2178087404

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chicago-writer-explores-feminist-accountability/docview/21780874 04/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jan 30-Feb 12, 2019

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Report: Lack of support for student survivors of domestic violence

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/report-lack-support-student-survivors-domestic/docview/2165564419/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=34&amp;issue=16&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2019-01-02&amp;atitle=Report%3A+Lack+of+support+for+student+survivors+of+domestic+violence&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=34&amp;issue=16&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2019-01-02&amp;atitle=Report%3A+Lack+of+support+for+student+survivors+of+domestic+violence&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: A report published by Chicago's Sargent Shriver National Center on Poverty Law shows that while coverage of the incidence of sexual abuse in Chicago Public Schools has spurred critical dialogue around how school officials respond to students who've experienced gender-based violence, there are widespread blind spots to domestic and sexual violence in schools all over Illinois.
The report underscores the what it calls current inadequacies in Illinois schools that can hold student survivors back. Among the report's findings:
-Most schools lack a written policy or customary protocol for school personnel to deal with revelations of domestic and sexual violence.
-Despite a 2007 Illinois law requiring training for teachers, guidance counselors, and other school personnel likely to deal with students who've survived domestic and sexual violence, training is not taking place.
-School personnel often respond inappropriately to vulnerable students who disclose their experiences, and breach confidentially by publicly sharing details of students' experiences.
-School officials' inexpert responses result in intrusive questioning and peer bullying of survivors.
-Many student survivors are left to fend for themselves in the wake of their trauma and, as a result, miss classes, move schools or drop out.
The report's findings are based on four focus groups and 31 in-person and phone interviews conducted in 2015 and 2016; a total of 59 students (middle school and high school students) and service providers participated. The participants were diverse in terms of race, ethnicity and LGBTQ status; in addition, the participant service providers served diverse student populations.
The report calls for all K-12 schools across Illinois to develop survivor-centered, traumainformed policies for responding to the needs of students who are survivors of domestic or sexual violence.
The full report is at PovertyLaw.org/studentsurvivors.

Subject: Students; Domestic violence; Schools; State laws

Location: Chicago Illinois; Illinois; United States--US

People: Shriver, R Sargent

Company / organization: Name: National Center on Poverty Law; NAICS: 813319; Name: Chicago Public Schools; NAICS: 611110

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Report: Lack of support for student survivors of domestic violence

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 34

Issue: 16

First page: 8

Publication year: 2019

Publication date: Jan 2, 2019

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2165564419

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/report-lack-support-student-survivors-domestic/docview/2165564419/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jan 2, 2019

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

BILLY Masters

Author: Masters, Billy

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/billy-masters/docview/2156323883/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=34&amp;issue=12&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=35&amp;date=2018-12-05&amp;atitle=BILLY+Masters&amp;au=Masters%2C+Billy&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=34&amp;issue=12&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=35&amp;date=2018-12-05&amp;atitle=BILLY+Masters&amp;au=Masters%2C+Billy&amp;id=doi:

Full text: "I thought the stain was going to be bigger. Y'know, it was so low. To me, it was probably he hadn't pulled up his pants and just hit her with a wet tip!"-Wendy Williams' takeaway from The Clinton Affair documentary.
Last week, we commemorated World AIDS Day. In our current political climate, it almost makes sense that the White House would single out Mike Pence to participate in a ceremony. Why, it's like OJ speaking on domestic abuse. And, what better way to combat AIDS than conversion therapy? (I say this dripping with sarcasm, in case that didn't come through.) If you don't believe me, you obviously didn't listen to what Pence had to say-or, rather, what he didn't say. He somehow managed to talk for several minutes about HIV without ever uttering the word "gay" or mentioning the LGBT community! But he did manage to squeeze in this little factoid- the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (known as PEPFAR) has $100 million earmarked for religious organizations. Is it just me, or does that sound a tad excessive? I mean, how much does it cost to hand out condoms to priests?
In a related story, Pope Francis made it clear where he stands on gay priests. In the book The Strength of Vocation, the Pope says that homosexuality in the church "is something that worries me"-of course, he said it in Italian but, happily, your Billy is bilingual: "For this reason, the Church urges that persons with this rooted tendency not be accepted into ministry or consecrated life." This includes priests, monks and nuns-all of whom take vows of celibacy. What if you have those tendencies and are already in the church? Franny has some advice for them, too: "It is better that they leave the priesthood or the consecrated life rather than live a double life."
A Delta Airlines pilot is hoping to keep his job after sending a Grindr message to a passenger: "I see you're on my flight. Enjoy the ride to Chicago." Now, I ask you, in these days of questionable customer service, isn't that a nice message? Sure "enjoy the ride" on a sex app could be taken a variety of ways, but I'm accepting it as innocuously as I do when a hot flight attendant asks me if I'd like "warm nuts." Apparently, the recipient of this message was not as blase as moi. He told the New York Post, "My reaction was I knew I needed to get off this plane as fast as I can." Again, the phrase "get off" is open to interpretation.
Remember a few weeks ago how we told you that porn star Austin Wolf filmed himself having sex with a flight attendant in a Delta lavatory? Well, in-flight sex is running rampant. Diego Barros isn't actually a porn star-he sells underwear and likes to pose in them (and out of them, too). He was recently on a flight where he was sitting in one of those first-class cubby holes. So, what does one do when alone and bored? Yes, exactly. He filmed himself masturbating. I dunno-I guess it's scandalous. It's certainly illegal. And you can see it on BillyMasters.com.
Without further ado, we bring you more of "Billy's Holiday Gift Giving Suggestions." Thom Bierdz has the distinction of not only being the first openly gay actor to appear as a regular on a daytime drama, he also played a character who was openly gay. Of course, neither the actor nor the character started out that way. When Phillip Chancellor III was killed off of The Young and the Restless in 1989, Bierdz went into something of a freefall.
When his character returned from the dead 20 years later-as soap characters do-it was revealed that he faked his death because he wanted to live openly as a gay man. If you think that sounds bizarre, wait till you read Young, Gay & Restless. It's a gripping story of a handsome young man trying to make it in Hollywood, hitting the heights of daytime drama one day, and then bartending at the Soap Opera Digest Awards the next. Dichotomy is a regular part of Bierdz's life. While he was being pursued by some of the best-looking men in Hollywood, he was still feeling inadequate about his looks and took some drastic measures to change them. Throw in one brother who committed suicide and another who killed their mother, and you have a story that's stranger than fiction. By the way, Bierdz is marking his second appearance on our "Gift Giving" list. His previous book about the murder of his mother, Forgiving Troy, made our list in 2009. You can get his books-and his artwork-at ThomBierdz.com.
The good thing about having lasted so long in this business we call show is that I've grown up with many of the people I write about. The acclaimed Thirsty Burlington and I go back a LONG way. Long before I started writing this column, I spent years hosting shows in my native Boston. One of the regulars in attendance was the young Scott Townsend. To have watched Scott transform himself into Thirsty Burlington, one of the world's premier Cher impersonators, has been a joy for me. But that was nothing next to the joy I felt watching the film "Thirsty" and seeing how this extraordinary person developed. It was also a pleasant surprise to see my friend Jonny Beauchamp play Scott in his early years! If you are a fan or new to the Burlington brand, this is a film I cannot recommend enough. You can grab it on Amazon or watch it on Amazon Prime.
When I'm still Thirsty for more Burlington, it's time to end another column. I forgot the worst part of the holidays-peppermint bark. Don't get me wrong, I love it ... a bit too much. So while I am out doing a few extra thousand steps, you can check out BillyMasters.com-the site that's always a step ahead of everyone else. But even while exercising (or eating), I can respond to your every need. Drop a note to Billy@BillyMasters.com and I promise to get back to you before Pope Francis starts giving out Bibles with a strip of condoms as a bookmark! So, until next time, remember: One man's filth is another man's bible.

Subject: Motion pictures; Actors; Books; Catholicism

Location: Chicago Illinois; New York; United States--US

People: Pence, Mike; Cher; Francis (Pope)

Company / organization: Name: Amazon.com Inc; NAICS: 334310, 454110, 518210; Name: New York Post; NAICS: 513110

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: BILLY Masters

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 34

Issue: 12

Pages: 35

Publication year: 2018

Publication date: Dec 5, 2018

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2156323883

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/billy-masters/docview/2156323883/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Dec 5, 2018

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

COMMUNITY CALENDAR

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/community-calendar/docview/2133351105/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=34&amp;issue=4&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=30&amp;date=2018-10-10&amp;atitle=COMMUNITY+CALENDAR&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=34&amp;issue=4&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=30&amp;date=2018-10-10&amp;atitle=COMMUNITY+CALENDAR&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Wed., Oct. J0
Self-defense class for LGBTQs As a part of its series of events for Domestic Violence Awareness Month, Center on Halsted will be hosting 90-minute selfdefense classes, taught by IMPACT Chicago, to help empower LGBTQ community ebers to protect themselves in the face of interpersonal violence. 6:00pm Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted Chicago http://www.facebook.com/ events/1106911946126486/
Thursday, Oct. JJ
Personal PAC 25th Annual Awards Luncheon Illinois organization whose sole mission is elect to pro-choice leaders and defeat anti-choice candidates with former two-term Michigan governor and attorney general Jennifer Granholm speaking. 12:00pm Chicago Hilton and Towers 720 S Michigan Ave Chicago http://PersonalPAC.org
Proud To Run kickoff party $20 suggested donation gets you one drink ticket and a chance to win a fabulous prize. Sign up for Proud To Run 2019 for a low registration price. 7-9 pm Sidetrack, 3349 N. Halsted St. https://www.facebook.com/ events/1858183790939444/
More Than A Month: Pariah Screening & Discussion Adepero Oduye, portrays Alike (pronounced ah-lee-kay), a 17-year-old African-American woman who lives in Brooklyn's Fort Greene neighborhood, quietly but firmly embracing her identity as a lesbian. 6:30pm - 8:30pm Oak Park Public Library Maze Branch, 845 Gunderson Ave, Oak Park
Athleisure Underwear Collection Richard Dayhoff, celebrity catwalk and local designers. Latino Fashion Week Chicago. Reception 7 p.m. 8:00pm Block 37, 108 N. State St, Chicago., http://www. latinofashionwk.com/
Friday, Oct. J2
Queer Genre Fiction Book Group Each second Friday 7:00pm - 9:00pm Gerber Hart Library and Archives 6500 N Clark St Chicago http://www.gerberhart.org
Judy Garland: Come Rain or Come Shine Jeff Award-winning dynamo Angela Ingersoll (End of the Rainbow) superbly captures the emotional and vocal power of Judy Garland live in concert. With her great big voice and naturally winning humor, Ingersoll soars in this loving homage. Iconic songs include Over the Rainbow, Get Happy and The Man That Got Away. Through Oct. 14. 8:00pm Nichols Concert Hall, 1490 Chicago Ave., Evanston http://angelaingersoll.com Tickets: http://musictheaterworks.com
Saturday, Oct. J3
Open House Chicago 2018 Free public festival that offers behind-the-scenes access to more than 250 buildings across Chicago. Tour soaring skyscrapers, repurposed mansions, opulent theaters, exclusive private clubs, industrial facilities, cutting-edge offices and breathtaking sacred spaces. Free 8:00am Chicago Architecture Center http://openhousechicago.org
Women's March Chicago March to the Polls 2018 March as the polls open for early voting in Illinois. Celebrate new voters, in particular young women, immigrants, and other youth, and get facetime with elected officials, guest speakers and live musical performances. 9:00am Grant Park 337 E. Randolph St Chicago http://www.womensmarchchicago.org
Phase VII Dedication of the Legacy Walk Two bronze memorial plaques on Halsted commemorating Marsha P. Johnson and Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky complete the only outdoor LGBT history museum in the world. Doors open 12:30p.m. for pre-ceremony reception 1 p.m. - 2 p.m "Remembering Marsha P. Johnson." $10, refreshments. Part II outdoor inductee dedication ceremonies follow at 2 p.m. Free and open to the public 1:00pm Begin with reception at Center on Halsted, 3656 N. Halsted. Followed by a Dedication Celebration featuring live music and a silent auction at Sidetrack, 3349 N. Halsted St. Tickets: http://www. eventbrite.com/e/legacy-walk-dedication-7-tickets-50592824500
Little Black Pearl Women's Action Council at Center on Halsted presents a night of celebration and recognition of Tamara Allen, Lora Branch, and Megan Carney. DJ Lineup: Rae Chardonnay, Rhated R, and DJ Castro. Hosted by Gwen La Roka. $50 early tickets include open bar and gourmet bites 1:00pm Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted Chicago http:// bit.ly/2MkrZvw
By Women for Women Presents: Harlem Renaissance Women's Action Council throws a night of celebration and recognition of outstanding contributions from honorees Tamara Allen, Lora Branch and Megan Carney. The Harlem Renaissance themed event will feature sultry performances, music and dancing. Early ticket $50 includes open bar from 6-8 pm and gourmet bites from Premier Catering & Events. 6:00pm - 10:00pm Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted St.; http://community.centeronhalsted.org/bwfwevent
Lakeside Pride Jazz Orchestra's Love and Marriage Musical nuptial favorites performed by the Lakeside Pride Jazz Orchestra, Strayhorns Jazz Combo, and the Wilde Cabaret. Presented by 90.9fm WDCB. 7:30pm - 9:30pm Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted Chicago Tickets: http://www.eventbrite.com/e/ love-and-marriage-presented-by-909fmwdcb-tickets-49321559111
Sunday, Oct. J4
2018 Victory Fund Chicago Champagne Brunch Meet President & CEO, former Houston Mayor Annise Parker, and hear about Victory Fund's groundbreaking LGBTQ candidates this cycle. 11:00am - 2:00pm Chez Chicago, 247 E Ontario St 2nd floor; https://victoryfund.org/ event/chicago-champagne-brunch/
Tuesday, Oct. J6
Putting the T First: Honoring the Role of the Transgender Community in the LGBT Rights Movement Part Two Coalition of community agencies will focus on expanding awareness of the transgender community. Part 2 will focus on the lived experience of members of the trans community, behavioral health support services, and support services for identity issues from childhood and up. Free 3:00pm - 5:00pm Lake View Presbyterian Church 716 W Addison St., Chicago
Thursday, Oct. J8
DIFFA/Chicago's Art For Life Chicago Juried art auction and exhibition. Painting, photography, sculpture, other 3D media, live and silent auctions, ranging in price from $50 to $5,000. 6:00pm Venue West, 221 N. Paulina St. http://artforlifechicago.org.
Jill Soloway Discussing forthcoming memoir She Wants It: Desire, Power, and Toppling the Patriarchy. Guests Hannah Gadsby, Pidgeon Pagonus, Precious Brady Davis, Faith Soloway, Elaine Soloway 7:00pm Women & Children First Bookstore 5233 N Clark St Chicago http://jillsolowaychicago.brownpapertickets.com/

Subject: Domestic violence; Harlem Renaissance; Novels; Musical performances; Transgender persons; Women; Jazz

Location: Chicago Illinois; Illinois; Michigan; United States--US

People: Garland, Judy (1922-69); Granholm, Jennifer; Davis, Faith; Tchaikovsky, Pyotr Ilyich (1840-1893)

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: COMMUNITY CALENDAR

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 34

Issue: 4

Pages: 30

Publication year: 2018

Publication date: Oct 10, 2018

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 2133351105

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/community-calendar/docview/2133351105/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 10, 2018

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Bishop Phyllis V. Pennese on leadership, 15-year anniversary

Author: Maxwell, Carrie

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bishop-phyllis-v-pennese-on-leadership-15-year/docview/2133349421/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=34&amp;issue=4&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=12&amp;date=2018-10-10&amp;atitle=Bishop+Phyllis+V.+Pennese+on+leadership%2C+15-year+anniversary&amp;au=Maxwell%2C+Carrie&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;title=Bishop+Phyllis+V.+Pennese+on+leadership%2C+15-year+anniversary&amp;spage=12&amp;date=2018-10-10&amp;atitle=Bishop+Phyllis+V.+Pennese+on+leadership%2C+15-year+anniversary&amp;au=Maxwell%2C+Carrie&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Bishop Phyllis V. Pennese, 61, recently celebrated her 15th anniversary as a minister at the church she founded in 2003, Pillar of Love Fellowship United Church of Christ (UCC).
"This has been a difficult but marvelous journey," said Pennese. "I have learned how to be a better pastor and pastoring has taught me how to be a better parent to my son, Brandon, and a better partner to my wife, Vickie. The anniversary service included friends, pastors, deacons and lay leaders from California, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Illinois and Iowa.
"We celebrated with song, dance, praise, testimonies, great preaching and spoken word by local artist, activist and Pillar of Love founding member e. nina jay. It was a glorious time and I am so incredibly grateful and appreciative of all those who came from near and far to help us celebrate."
Pennese described her church as "radically inclusive and welcoming to everyone who wants to attend. It was founded to do outreach to those on the margins of society and the Black LGBTQ community specifically."
Pillar of Love's motto is "We live the love in our name and are courageous enough to be all God created."
This is a far cry from the church teachings Pennese heard during her youth as a member of the Pentecostal Church of God in Christ (COGIC). She called her childhood self a "Bible thumper."
Pennese grew up during the civil-rights era as a biracial child with an African-American mother and Italian immigrant father. She was part of the first wave of integrations during her elementary school years.
Everything changed when Pennese entered a local Catholic college and discovered a wider interpretation of faith through her exploration of other faith traditions. Pennese learned that the other people she met believed in God as much as she did. College was also where she discovered the lesbian scene, embraced her sexual orientation and went to her first gay bar, Augie & CK's.
Pennese said both her biracial and lesbian identities have formed much of how she views her faith and the wider world. This viewpoint and the fact that Pennese could not reconcile the anti-LGBT rhetoric she was taught as a child led her to leave the COGIC church and drop out of college. She spent the next 20 years "developing my feminist, womanist, lesbian self" through her involvement with Rape Victims Advocates (RVA). At first, Pennese was an RVA board member and volunteer doing rape crisis intervention and later, she served as one the organization's first paid staff members.
"I trained hundreds of women, and some men, in rape-crisis advocacy and was responsible for setting up rape-crisis advocacy programs in hospitals all over Chicago," said Pennese. "I also served as the Chicago Sexual Assault Services Network executive director and eventually worked with other organizations to do rape and incest survivor counseling."
While working at RVA, Pennese was asked by Rev. Delois Brown-Daniels to train some Clinical Pastoral Education (CPE) students about rape, sexual assault and domestic violence. This led to Pennese attending a church service where Daniels was a guest preacher.
"Rev. Dee asked me to stand and introduced me to those gathered and said that people 'should get to know me and my ministry,'" said Pennese. "I remember thinking, 'who the hell is she talking about.' The anti-violence work I did was powerful and healing and in many ways spiritual but I had never thought of it as ministry until Rev. Dee said that."
Attending a revival at Trinity UCC, Pennese heard a sermon by Rev. Dr. James Forbes, who was LGBTQ-affirming. She also heard affirming messages at New Faith Baptist Church by Rev. Dr. Frank Thomas and joined the church after a few visits.
"I spoke to God about my sexual orientation and heard God affirm that God desired a relationship with me just as I was and that what was stopping me was me and other people but not God," said Pennese.
At New Faith Baptist Church, Pennese got involved as a leader and started ministry training. One of the rotations was in pastoral care which Pennese enjoyed so she started going to CPE classes herself.
"I applied for a Chaplain Intern Program at Northwestern Hospital and was accepted," said Pennese. "I flourished there and was told by the director that I should pursue a chaplain residency."
Pennese, with Dee's guidance, took on the challenge and was accepted into Advocate Christ Hospital's CPE Residency Program. She said she was surprised to be accepted since those residency programs were mostly offered to seminary students or graduates, of which she was not.
"When I completed that residency, I took a position at Advocate Hospice," said Pennese.
While at Advocate, Pennese applied and was accepted into the Master of Divinity program at Chicago Theological Seminary (CTS). She said CTS was the best fit for her due to the school's focus on teaching students how to think, that who one studies with is as important as what one studies and to ask who makes the rules and how can one change them.
Another pivotal moment for Pennese while she was at CTS was when she traveled to California with her wife to hear Rev. Yvette Flunder (now Bishop) preach.
"Hearing this powerful woman of God felt like looking in the mirror and seeing all of me for the first time, ever," said Pennese. "By this time I had had women ministers as role models and Black lesbians as role models but I did not know of anyone who embodied all of that and who demonstrated the love of God so profoundly. It was Bishop Flunder who took me under her wing and mentored, nurtured and encouraged me to birth Pillar of Love."
During this time, Pennese had switched her membership to Trinity UCC under Pastor Jeremiah Wright.
"Pastor Wright, of course, gave me his time, expertise and graciously shared his wisdom," said Pennese.
Pennese is also the Midwest Region Bishop for The Fellowship Of Affirming Ministries (TFAM) where she helps other pastors grow and develop as leaders.
Pennese and partner Vickie Sides celebrated their 20th anniversary this past May. They met when both were doing rape crisis work in Chicago.
"I would not be who I am nor would my work in ministry be as successful without her and our son, Brandon in my life," said Pennese.
Sides currently works as a University of Chicago administrator and as an adjunct professor at National Louis University.
"My entire life has been a great journey and I am excited to see and know what God has in store for me for the next 15 years" said Pennese.
See http://www.pillaroflove.org/ for more information.

Subject: Sexual orientation; Students; Multiracial people; Domestic violence; Rape; Role models; Sex crimes; Advocacy; Gays & lesbians; Leadership

Business indexing term: Subject: Leadership

Location: Indiana; Chicago Illinois; Ohio; Illinois; Pennsylvania; California; Michigan; Iowa; United States--US

People: Thomas, Frank; Wright, Jeremiah Jr

Company / organization: Name: United Church of Christ; NAICS: 813110; Name: University of Chicago; NAICS: 611310; Name: Chicago Theological Seminary; NAICS: 611310

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Bishop Phyllis V. Pennese on leadership, 15-year anniversary

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 34

Issue: 4

Pages: 12

Publication year: 2018

Publication date: Oct 10, 2018

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2133349421

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bishop-phyllis-v-pennese-on-leadership-15-year/docview/2133349421/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 10, 2018

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Panel focuses on LGBTQ domestic violence stigmas

Author: Maxwell, Carrie

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/panel-focuses-on-lgbtq-domestic-violence-stigmas/docview/2133349276/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=34&amp;issue=4&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=13&amp;date=2018-10-10&amp;atitle=Panel+focuses+on+LGBTQ+domestic+violence+stigmas&amp;au=Maxwell%2C+Carrie&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=34&amp;issue=4&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=13&amp;date=2018-10-10&amp;atitle=Panel+focuses+on+LGBTQ+domestic+violence+stigmas&amp;au=Maxwell%2C+Carrie&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Center on Halsted (the Center) and the UN Women Chicago chapter hosted a panel discussion, "Cultural Stigma of LGBTQ Domestic Violence," Oct. 4 at the Center to kick off its programming slate for Domestic Violence Awareness Month.
Panelists included American Indian Health Service of Chicago Youth Programs & Youth Social Work Director Lauren Miller; Domestic Violence Legal Clinic Staff Attorney and Invisible 2 Invincible: Asian/Pacific Islander Pride of Chicago (i2i) member Nebula Li; and Radhika Sharma Gordon, outreach and education manager for Apna Ghar, a services and advocacy group for immigrant communities dedicated to ending gender violence. The Center's Anti-Violence Project (AVP) Clinical Advocate Caitlin Tupper served as the event's moderator.
Tupper asked what stigmas and barriers each of the panelists encounter with the people they serve who are victims of domestic violence.
Sharma Gordon said there is a fear of coming forward due to many factors, including being undocumented, family shaming and the older generation not wanting to air their dirty laundry versus the younger generation.
Li explained that sometimes LGBTQ-identified domestic violence victims are not out to their parents or other family members; queer couples are most often in the same social group; and there are not a lot of services outside of the Center which makes it harder for people in faraway neighborhoods to get help.
Miller, who identifies as pansexual and is a member of the Mvsoke-Creek Native American tribe, said that the Native American population has the most instances of domestic violence and sexual assault per capita, but the statistics for queer people within that group are unclear. She explained that only 40 tribes acknowledge LGBTQ people in their individual Constitutions, so it is difficult for many queer Native people to be out about their sexual orientation and/or gender identity.
In terms of people's coming out challenges, Tupper questioned how each of their organizations are combating that issue.
Miller said they have a youth drop-in center and a website page dedicated to youth programming, while Li explained that at the Domestic Violence Legal Clinic they will be doing a Trans 101 session for staff this fall.
Sharma Gordon said her organization has worked to have the staff "check their biases at the door" so everyone who comes in their door will receive the same level of services. She explained that another way they show their inclusivity is with an LGBTQIA poster featuring many different languages that says, "Welcome here" that a former staffer made for their space.
Every panelist emphasized the urgency of assisting trans and gender nonconforming women of color that come to them for help, including providing them with safe spaces to share their stories. Miller spoke about her organization's recent move to the corner of Montrose and Lowell Avenues, where they will have gender neutral bathrooms.
Tupper asked about the dynamics of domestic violence where partners exert control that they see in their work.
Miller said that the victim is sometimes shunned by their tribe, including removing access to cultural practices. Li explained that there is often a language barrier where the victim is not allowed to learn English as well as the desire to not ruin the reputation of all Asians by reporting acts of domestic violence. Sharma Gordon spoke about immigration status being tied to marriage to one's abuser.
As far as a safety plan for LGBTQ domestic abuse survivors is concerned, Miller explained that validating their experience is key and respecting how they identify themselves is also important. Li said ensuring a survivor's confidentiality, and letting them lead the decision-making process- including using the same language they use to describe what happened to them-is also vital.
For more on the Center's AVP programming, visit http://www.centeronhalsted.org/AVP. html. See also aihschgo.org/, apnaghar.org/ and dvlcchicago.org/ for more resources information.

Subject: Families & family life; Domestic violence; Sex crimes; Gender identity; Native North Americans

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Indian Health Service; NAICS: 923120

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Panel focuses on LGBTQ domestic violence stigmas

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 34

Issue: 4

Pages: 13

Publication year: 2018

Publication date: Oct 10, 2018

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2133349276

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/panel-focuses-on-lgbtq-domestic-violence-stigmas/docview/2133349276/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 10, 2018

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Table of contents

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/table-contents/docview/2133349189/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=34&amp;issue=4&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=3&amp;date=2018-10-10&amp;atitle=Progress%3A+An+Enhanced+Supervision+Program+for+High-Risk+Criminal+Offenders&amp;au=Hagenbucher%2C+Greg&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=34&amp;issue=4&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=3&amp;date=2018-10-10&amp;atitle=Table+of+contents&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Not available.

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Table of contents

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 34

Issue: 4

Pages: 3

Publication year: 2018

Publication date: Oct 10, 2018

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Table Of Contents

ProQuest document ID: 2133349189

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/table-contents/docview/2133349189/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 10, 2018

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

COMMUNITY CALENDAR

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/community-calendar/docview/2133351116/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=34&amp;issue=3&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=30&amp;date=2018-10-03&amp;atitle=COMMUNITY+CALENDAR&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=34&amp;issue=3&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=30&amp;date=2018-10-03&amp;atitle=COMMUNITY+CALENDAR&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Wed., Oct. 3
1968 DNC Protests exhibit ongoing Exploring a watershed moment in U.S. politics-the 50th anniversary of the convention protests-with the new virtualreality experience. From photographs and documents from the Chicago History Museum's archives to the site of the demonstrations. David Farber, Ph.D., narrates the 14-minute VR tour that can be viewed through YouTube; the Chrome browser; or with Google Cardboard VR glasses. 12:00pm Chicago History Museum 1601 N Clark Chicago http:// chicago00.org/experiences.html#dnc.
Two authors in joint reading Joshua Chambers-Letson and C. Riley Snorton, authors After the Party: A Manifesto for Queer of Color Life and Black on Both Sides: A Social History of Trans Identity 7:00pm Women & Children First, 5233 N Clark St, Chicago, www.womenandchildrenfirst.com
Thursday, Oct. 4
Cultural Stigma of LGBTQ Domestic Violence Panel For Domestic Violence Awareness Month, panel on domestic violence across races, ethnicities, cultures. Co-sponsored by UN Women Chicago Chapter. Panelists Lauren Miller of Youth Programs American Indian Health Service of Chicago and Radhika Sharma, Outreach and Education Apna Cihar. Free 6:00pm - 8:00pm Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted Chicago http://www. centeronhalsted.org/newevents-details. cfm?ID=15499
American Veterans for Equal Rights monthly meeting AVER is a non-profit, chapter-based association of active, reserve and veteran servicemembers dedicated to full and equal rights and equitable treatment. This monthly meeting supports the chapters work in outreach and visibility for LGBTQ veterans year round. On Facebook, see AVER Chicago Chapter. 7:00pm Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted Chicago
Happy Underground's Secret Origins: An Improvised Superhero Event Audiences create new and fantastic heroes and villains with the help of Chicago improvisers, culminating in an epic showdown in the final week of Oct. 26. $10 10:00pm Otherworld Theatre, 3914 N. Clark St. http://www.eventbrite.com/e/secretorigins-an-improvised-superhero-originevent-tickets-49881639326
Friday, Oct. 5
The Sip online show Live show every Friday night, three gay men from diverse occupations and life journeys discuss everything from world headline news to pop culture from a Black LGBTQ perspective. 6:00pm - 7:00pm On line http:// goo.gl/pL7wWA
Project&'s Pan premieres otherworldly music Pan Creative Team. Working with young people at Chicago West Community Music Center and youth at The People's Music School, community collaborators from Chicago creating and performing otherworldly music with Project& Fellow and MacArthur Fellow Claire Chase with Levy Lorenzo's sound design. Free and open to public, please RSVP 7:00pm - 8:30pm Garfield Park Field house http://www.eventbrite. com/e/pan-chicago-premiere-tickets50133176681?aff=ebdssbdestsearch
OPALGA Potluck Please bring a dish to share and BYOB. All are welcome-members, guests, straight allies, etc. 7:00pm - 10:00pm Private Oak Park home. Contact organizers for loc c ti o n http: //www. fac e bo o k. c o m / events/1244016565740128/
Patience & Sarah: A Pioneering Love Story An artist and a farmer's daughter meet and fall in love in 1816 and escape mendacity to live freely in an opera direcsted by Jenn Cox. Through Oct. 31. Third Eye Theatre Ensemble at Theater Wit 7:30pm Theater Wit 1229 W Belmont Ave. Chicago http://thirdeyete. com/
Joan Baez: Fare Thee Well...Tour 2018 Protest and folk music for 60+ years. Farewell tour extended into 2019. 8:00pm The Chicago Theatre (Chicago) 175 N State St Chicago http://www. msg.com/calendar/the-chicago-theatreoctober-2018-joan-baez-fare-thee-welltour-2018
Saturday, Oct. 6
The Great Amazing Race Chicago-Aurora Family Friendly Adventure Run/Walk for Adults & Kids modeled after the TV show with two-person teams completing a 1.5-mile XC course speckled a variety of fun-filled challenges. $49.99 per team 3:00pm Phillips Park, 1000 Ray Moses Dr., Aurora http://www.GreatAmazingRace.com
Original Warrior opening Explores the complex Native American relationship between warrior and community, warrior and war, and warrior and service, featuring the work of Native American artists: 4:00pm - 7:00pm, h ttp://www .nvam.org/Module/ Event/EventDetail/Upcoming_Exhibit:_ORIGINAL_WARRIOR?id=52&mc_ cid=2ef3877352&mc_eid=6483c94ee9
The Artificial Jungle Mild-mannered wner of a dilapidated pet store is in the way of the life his wife craves. She and a mysterious drifter have to make a plan. Through Oct 28. 7:30pm Box Theatre 1225 W. Belmont Ave Chicago http:// www.handbagproduotions.org
Tuesday, Oct. 9
Gender and Sexuality Studies Workshop Managing Work & Life in Academic Careers panel discussion featuring postdoctoral teaching fellow Michael Dango (English), CSRPC fellow Jenn Jackson (Political Science), and Professor Kristen Schilt (Sociology). Light refreshments 5:00pm - 6:30pm First floor seminar room of 5733 S. University Ave http:// voices.uchicago.edu/genderandsexuality/
Evening with Eva Schloss, Stepsister of Anne Frank A story of survival and memories of her stepsister Anne Frank. Chabad Jewish community in Lakeview hosts. $0 - $180. 6 p.m. VIP reception 7:00pm Lane Tech http://www.eventbrite.com/e/a-historic-evening-witheva-schloss-stepsister-of-anne-franktickets-49864727743
Wed., Oct. 10
Self-defense class for LGBTQs As a part of its series of events for Domestic Violence Awareness Month, Center on Halsted will be hosting 90-minute selfdefense classes, taught by IMPACT Chicago, to help empower LGBTQ community ebers to protect themselves in the face of interpersonal violence. 6:00pm Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted Chicago http://www.facebook.com/ events/1106911946126486/
Author Robert Fieseler discusses his new book Tinderbox: The Untold Story of the Up Stairs Lounge Fire and the Rise of Cay Liberation. Fieseler will engage in conversation about the book with Owen Keehnen. 7 pm Unabridged Books, 3251 N Broadway, www.unabridgedbookstore.com
Thursday, Oct. 11
It's Only a Play By Terrence McNally Comedy set behind the scenes of a Broadway, celebrities pouring in and insiders upstairs in the bedroom await the reviews. Through Nov. 11 8:00pm The Broadway, Pride Arts Center, 4139 N. Broadway 866-811-4111 http://www. pridefilmsandplays.com
Athleisure Underwear Collection Richard Dayhoff, celebrity catwalk and local designers. Latino Fashion Week Chicago. Reception 7 p.m. 8:00pm , http:// www.latinofashionwk.com/

Subject: Music; Superheroes; Domestic violence; Celebrities; Museum exhibits; Books; Theater; Demonstrations & protests; Museums

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Chase, Claire; Baez, Joan

Company / organization: Name: YouTube Inc; NAICS: 516210; Name: American Veterans for Equal Rights; NAICS: 813319; Name: Indian Health Service; NAICS: 923120; Name: Facebook Inc; NAICS: 516210, 518210; Name: Google Inc; NAICS: 334310, 519290; Name: Theater Wit; NAICS: 711110; Name: Chicago Theatre; NAICS: 711110

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: COMMUNITY CALENDAR

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 34

Issue: 3

Pages: 30

Publication year: 2018

Publication date: Oct 3, 2018

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 2133351116

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/community-calendar/docview/2133351116/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 3, 2018

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Immigrants, officials criticize Rauner vetoes

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/immigrants-officials-criticize-rauner-vetoes/docview/2133356652/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=34&amp;issue=2&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2018-09-26&amp;atitle=Immigrants%2C+officials+criticize+Rauner+vetoes&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=34&amp;issue=2&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2018-09-26&amp;atitle=Immigrants%2C+officials+criticize+Rauner+vetoes&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Immigrant community members, state legislators and leaders with the Campaign for a Welcoming Illinois denounced Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner's vetoes of the VOICES Act (SB 34), the Immigration Safe Zones Act (SB 35), and the Immigrant Tenant Protection Act (SB 3103) recently.
The vetoes come almost exactly a year after Rauner joined community members in Chicago to sign the Illinois TRUST Act-a bill that barred state and local law enforcement from arresting and holding individuals based on immigration status or immigration warrants and detainers.
The VOICES Act, SB 34, would protect immigrant survivors of domestic violence by standardizing the process across Illinois for them to get certifications from law-enforcement agencies in order to seek federal protections. The Safe Zones Act, SB 35, would develop model policies to protect immigrants against ICE arrests at courthouses, schools, hospitals and other sensitive locations. The Immigrant Tenant Protection Act, SB 3103, would bar landlords from evicting or threatening tenants based on their actual or suspected immigration status.
Fred Tsao, senior policy counsel at the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, said in a statement, "A year ago, Gov. Rauner signed the TRUST Act, yet today he announces vetoes for three bills that would make our state more welcoming. One moment he is addressing the needs of immigrant communities, and the next, he is using hateful antiimmigrant rhetoric to rationalize rejecting bills that are vital to our communities. Can immigrants really trust this governor?"

Subject: Immigration policy; Bills; Noncitizens

Location: Chicago Illinois; Illinois; United States--US

People: Rauner, Bruce

Company / organization: Name: Illinois Coalition; NAICS: 813910

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Immigrants, officials criticize Rauner vetoes

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 34

Issue: 2

Pages: 8

Publication year: 2018

Publication date: Sep 26, 2018

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2133356652

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/immigrants-officials-criticize-rauner-vetoes/docview/2133356652/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Sep 26, 2018

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Making no small plans: Marcia Lipetz has died

Author: Baim, Tracy

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/making-no-small-plans-marcia-lipetz-has-died/docview/2133351187/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=34&amp;issue=1&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2018-09-19&amp;atitle=Making+no+small+plans%3A+Marcia+Lipetz+has+died&amp;au=Baim%2C+Tracy&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=34&amp;issue=1&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2018-09-19&amp;atitle=Making+no+small+plans%3A+Marcia+Lipetz+has+died&amp;au=Baim%2C+Tracy&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Marcia J. Lipetz, 71, a foundational person in the Chicago LGBT community, has died. A no-nonsense professional, she fought for women's rights and social justice since she was a teenager growing up in Louisville, Kentucky-and she was part of some of the more significant organizations in Chicago's LGBT community.
Lipetz's final battle was against a fatal cancer that sapped her energy and captured her full focus. She and wife Lynda Crawford coped with the day-in and day-out struggles of hospice in her final months.
In the early afternoon of Aug. 8, Lipetz spoke with Windy City Times in her Evanston condo. With a beautiful view of the Northwestern University campus and a deep-blue Lake Michigan framing her sofa, Lipetz was relaxed and melancholy, thinking back on her life and careers- surrounded by two energetic and loving rescue dogs, Callie and Keeper.
Two of the more critical organizations Lipetz helped lead are the AIDS Foundation of Chicago (AFC), where, in the late '80s, she was the first full-time executive director; and Center on Halsted (previously known as Gay and Lesbian Horizons, then Horizons), where she served on the board in the '80s, and later returned to be part of the team that worked on creating and building the Center on Halsted.
Lipetz also worked on the launch of Fred Eychaner's WPWR Channel 50 Foundation in the '90s- an entity she ran for 11 years. Now known as the Alphawood Foundation, it is a critical supporter of the arts, activism and LGBTQ organizations.
Lipetz later was president and CEO of the Executive Service Corps of Chicago, where she used her expertise and skills to benefit Chicago's nonprofit community.
Most recently, Lipetz started Lipetz Consulting, and among her clients was the Chicago Community Trust, working as an advisor on the LGBT Community Fund.
Lipetz also chaired the board of the Donors Forum of Chicago (now called Forefront), and she served on the Illinois Attorney General's Charitable Advisory Council. Other boards she served on include the United Way of Metropolitan Chicago and the United Way/Crusade of Mercy Chicago Council.
Her early mentors in the lesbian community were Pauline Bart, Jean Hardisty and Eileen Kreutz.
"One defining moment [for me] was serving as an openly gay delegate to the 1996 Democratic National Convention," Lipetz said of her life. "Walking onto the floor for the first time was a magical moment for someone who watched political conventions all of her life."
Early years
Lipetz was born in Louisville in 1947. Her parents were social workers and involved in antiracist work during the tumultuous '50s and '60s. As a Jewish family, they were involved in interfaith work, and Lipetz attended an integrated high school. She was active in civil-rights work at that school.
She graduated from Douglass College of Rutgers University and earned a master's degree in sociology from Ohio State University and a Ph.D. in sociology from Northwestern University. She taught at the University of Illinois at Chicago, Northwestern and Spertus College.
At Douglass in the '60s, during the peak antiwar protest years on college campuses, Lipetz was involved in student government, including fighting a policy that said it was a violation for students to be involved in protests.
While she was at Ohio State, National Guard troops from her campus were sent to nearby Kent State to quell protests, resulting in the killing of four students in 1970.
From Ohio State she returned to Louisville to teach community college.
Lipetz said she did not really know she was a lesbian until age 24. Her first "coming out" experience was in 1973. "I was teaching a class in social problems and did a unit on homosexuality," Lipetz said. "It was the early days of feminism, and lesbian issues were controversial. I wanted to know more, and that was a hint of more to come."
The women's movement really attracted her attention, so Lipetz chose Planned Parenthood in Louisville as the first board of directors she would serve on. Her second board was the ACLU in her hometown. She said she enjoyed speaking and debating on women's choice issues.
Another proud achievement was being part of a group of about 40 people who got the ERA ratified in Kentucky in 1972. There was a male Democratic governor and a female Democratic lieutenant governor-and she signed the bill. Lipetz said they simply didn't have any reason to think they couldn't accomplish sweeping change, and helped to pass about 100 bills fighting for women's equality there.
When she moved to Chicago to attend Northwestern, however, she had a big wakeup call. She was schooled in the "who sent you" stranglehold of Chicago and Illinois politics, regardless of political party. It made it much more difficult to fight for change.
Her first professional job was working for the American Judicature Society, evaluating the criminal courts and the integrity of the American justice system. When federal funding for that important work dried up, she went to work for the University of Illinois Medical Center.
AIDS Foundation of Chicago
Lipetz's connection to AIDS came early on in the epidemic. She volunteered with the Reproductive Rights Advisory Committee of the ACLU of Illinois, and then issues of HIV/AIDS bias started to pop up. While at UIC, the unit Lipetz worked for had created educational materials related to HTLVIII (what later was labeled HIV). So there were lots of educational materials available locally.
Lipetz and gay businessman Fred Eychaner co-chaired an ACLU task force to create a policy related to discrimination issues. Lots of bad information about HIV/AIDS filled the news and streets in that 1984-'85 time period. The ACLU task force's approach was to "protect individual rights and liberties as well as public health."
"We developed the first policy in the U.S. for an ACLU, and that allowed us to accept a case for a physician at Cook County Hospital who had lost his privileges," Lipetz said. "Deaths were too numerous to count-gay men were diagnosed and died in 18 months, Black women in four months."
This work lead to the creation of the local ACLU's AIDS and Civil Liberties Project. John Hammell was the first director of that project and the Gay and Lesbian Rights Project of ACLU. Hammell died of AIDS complications in 1995.
While Mayor Harold Washington's gay liaison Kit Duffy was the AFC's first executive director when the agency launched in 1985, Lipetz came on board as the first full-time ED, in 1987.
"This married my interest in philanthropy and my growing knowledge of HIV," Lipetz said. "There was this whole underground made up of nurses and social workers" fighting HIV/AIDS.
The big challenges included pushing to make sure Chicago was a part of the national dialogue since the coasts often received the most funding and attention; fighting between local organizations who were competing for funding; no consistent pipeline of funding; and very few private foundations were giving money to the cause.
As the AIDS Foundation's first full-time executive director, Lipetz, an open lesbian, helped bring the various parts of the LGBTQ and the HIV/ AIDS communities together to battle a plague that was killing people within weeks or months of diagnosis. She helped to build consensus, secure funding and develop a response to the pandemic.
Much of the structure that she and others created is still vital to AFC's work today, including the service providers council. "The blueprint was there," Lipetz said. "AFC would be the gatherer of funds, to disperse to other agencies, to pick up the gaps, and to enhance others, for example with the case management collaborative.
"We brought the community together to make the decisions on funding. We were the demilitarized zone."
That doesn't mean there were no controversies. There were plenty, including among the populations most impacted by the disease. She said AFC's approach was to just not take the bait.
As a woman working on HIV/AIDS, she noted that a great number of other women stepped up to help because so many gay men were either struggling with the disease, or helping their partners and friends.
"AIDS had a huge impact on all of us," she said. "We watched as the community members shriveled, and we felt helpless about what to do. We coped with the constant death. I purposely touched and hugged everyone I could-because there were so many fears about touching people with AIDS. I went to as many memorials as I could, and I just dug down and did the work."
But then, it just "got too expensive," she said. "We created a parallel care delivery system, and there was not enough money to go around. Too many groups started, some were vanity projects. And race issues, about distribution of resources, began to effect the work. When FQHCs [Federal Qualified Health Centers] started to get involved in care, that really helped."
The stress was real. "I lived and breathed AIDS for more than three-and-a-half years," Lipetz said. "It was killing me, the pressure, the personal attacks, vendettas-it was not healthy. I left on my own, with three month's notice. I spent a lot of time pulling together materials for the next leader."
Amy Maggio was interim ED, followed by Karen Fishman as the next executive director of AFC.
Foundation work
Lipetz said her interest in philanthropy probably stems from her parents and the Jewish tradition of charitable giving.
After her AFC work, she went to a consulting project for WPWR Channel 50, which was looking to grow its reputation in public affairs. The station was owned at the time by Eychaner, whose own philanthropy was starting to increase. Lipetz said she was mindful that a foundation might develop from her work there.
The funding would go to a "progressive agenda" and for the things many foundations won't fund, such as operating budgets and advocacy, plus also funding of the arts and children's projects. They also would focus on women's domestic violence issues.
"We started with small grants," Lipetz said of the foundation. She started as secretary to the board and then became executive director of the foundation. She worked there for 11 years.
Center on Halsted
Lipetz first served on the Horizons board of directors in the mid-'80s, during the era when the agency hired its first full-time executive director, Bruce Koff. While she left the board when she took on the AFC job, fearing any conflicts of interest if Horizons applied for grants from AFC, she said she was always a supporter, attending galas and donating funds.
A few years later, when Patrick Sheahan was Horizons board president, he recruited Lipetz back into the fold. Her roles on the Center's board included vice chair and board of governance member.
"The time was right for a community center, a real center that included arts, recreation, meeting rooms, etc.," Lipetz said.
Lipetz joined a committee of the board first, and they operated independently, with no control by Horizons. Their mission was to explore the concept of a community center in the city. There had been several LGBT centers since the '70s, but the last, Rodde Center, had closed in the early '90s.
Sheahan, Vicky Raymont, Julio Rodriguez and, later, Dave Helverson, Evette Cardona, Marcia Festen and a handful of others worked on focus groups, town halls and research for just what and where this center would be.
The committee became a full part of the board, and Horizons itself morphed into the Center on Halsted. The building at the corner of Waveland and Halsted opened in 2007, after years of heavy lifting by the committee, board, donors, politicians and other key players.
"I spent eight years working on this," Lipetz said. "After that, it was time for other voices. You need different leaders at different times. I knew they needed to diversify and get fresh voices."
Lipetz, for her years of dedication to Horizons and the Center, was honored with the 2018 Human First Award at the Center's annual gala.
Her most recent work was helping with the LGBT Giving Council at Chicago Community Trust. "I set up the systems," she said. "I was seen as professional and neutral. I helped make site visits and make recommendations."
What matters now
About a year and a half ago, Lipetz started to get sick. It was adenocarcinoma. She and Lynda, together 16 years and married 13, coped with this final hurdle together.
Lipetz had two rounds of surgery and chemotherapy, but in August said there was nothing left to do. She went into hospice a few weeks ago. "I don't want to sustain the pain," she said, her black lab/dachshund mix in her lap.
"My friends have been very present," she said. "People take shifts."
Asked in 2007 for the Chicago Gay History Project what she felt her personal legacy is to the Chicago LGBT community, she said: "I guess I'm a builder-solid hard work that builds for the future-and I'm enormously proud of the work of the ACLU and the future of Center on Halsted."
She said her "defining moments" were: "Coming out to my sister; taking a partner home for the first time; buying our first house; being in a relationship with children; the Democratic National Committee; AFC's first fundraiser [a huge 1987 gala downtown featuring Angela Lansbury among many others]; testifying in Springfield; the Center on Halsted's ribbon cutting and being in the gym, theater, and youth space for the first time."
Receiving the Human First Award was a highlight for her. "I had that feeling that this was going to be it," she said. "I am happy, I do not feel I have a lot of unfinished business. I have been a feminist, a lesbian, Jewish, an academic, a philanthropist. I got to be all these things and more."
The Alphawood Foundation posted a statement on its website: "Alphawood Foundation honors the memory of Marcia Lipetz, our first executive director and a moving force in the creation of our organization. Marcia was a giant in our city and will remain forever in our hearts as we continue the work she started. We remember her with profound thanks."
The AIDS Foundation of Chicago sent a statement saying it was "saddened to learn that Marcia Lipetz has passed away. Marcia was a trailblazing social justice leader fighting for the rights of women, the LGBTQ community as well as those living with and vulnerable to HIV. As AFC's first full-time executive director and an honorary board member, Marcia was fundamental to AFC becoming the organization that it is today. This is a significant loss to both AFC and the Chicago community. We hope you'll take a moment to recognize the impact of Marcia and her decades of work to advance human rights."
See 2007 Chicago Gay History Project video interview with Lipetz here: http://chicagogayhistory.org/biography.html?id=736 .
Lipetz asked that any donations in her honor should be made to the Center on Halsted or a progressive organization of your choice.
A memorial service for Dr. Lipetz has been confirmed for Sunday Sept. 23, noon at Chicago Jewish Funerals, 8851 Skokie Blvd., Skokie. Interment private. Shiva or a reception will follow the service at the funeral home.

Subject: Social justice; Human immunodeficiency virus--HIV; Task forces; Conventions; Awards & honors; College campuses; Educational materials; Gays & lesbians; Sociology; Acquired immune deficiency syndrome--AIDS; Women

Location: Chicago Illinois; Ohio; Illinois; Kentucky; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Northwestern University; NAICS: 611310; Name: Alphawood Foundation; NAICS: 813211; Name: AIDS Foundation of Chicago; NAICS: 813212; Name: American Civil Liberties Union--ACLU; NAICS: 541110, 813311

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Making no small plans: Marcia Lipetz has died

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 34

Issue: 1

Pages: 6-7

Publication year: 2018

Publication date: Sep 19, 2018

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2133351187

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/making-no-small-plans-marcia-lipetz-has-died/docview/2133351187/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Sep 19, 2018

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Artemisia Fest fights for femme presentation

Author: Sullivan, Catey

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/artemisia-fest-fights-femme-presentation/docview/2133351178/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=34&amp;issue=1&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=25&amp;date=2018-09-19&amp;atitle=Artemisia+Fest+fights+for+femme+presentation&amp;au=Sullivan%2C+Catey&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=34&amp;issue=1&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=25&amp;date=2018-09-19&amp;atitle=Artemisia+Fest+fights+for+femme+presentation&amp;au=Sullivan%2C+Catey&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Headnote FALL THEATER PREVIEW
Google Artemisia Gentileschi's 17th-century oil painting Judith Beheading Holofernes. Seriously. Do it. I'll wait. The image is emblematic of Gentileschi's art: Magnificent, lush and thematically violent. It was also revolutionary: In 1600s art and life, the male gaze wasn't a thing, it was the only thing. So much so that for centuries after Gentileschi's death, her work was attributed to her male contemporaries.
"Nobody believed a woman painted like she did," said Artemisia Theatre Artistic Director Julie Proudfoot." "Critics and history ignored her signature, and credited various men with her paintings. They tried to erase her."
Proudfoot isn't one for female erasure, not in the 17th century and not today. With the sixplay Artemisia Fall Festival, she's putting plays about women in the limelight. "American theater clings to a white male perspective," said Proudfoot. "It does not embrace a feminist voice. And because of that, our culture is robbed of stories that aren't just great stories, they're universal." The fest's series of staged readings from Sept. 24 through Oct. 3 at the Edge Theatre, 5451 N. Broadway.
Statistics offer dismal proof off Proudfoot's assertion. According to American Theatre Magazine, men wrote close to two-thirds of all the plays produced in 2017. Women wrote 26 percent. Gender queer authors were all but statistically insignificant, coming in at .004 percent, (less than one half of one half of one half of one percent.)
Proudfoot recalled having an epiphany when trans actor/writer/activist Delia Kropp (https:// www.therealdelia.com/hr.html) spoke on a panel last spring.
"Delia said something that struck me so hard: 'I had no realization of how much privilege I had as a white man until I became a white woman,' " Proudfoot recalled. "It was an incredibly powerful moment."
Proudfoot often finds herself explaining that writing a female lead isn't enough. "I get submissions from writers who say, 'Oh, there are strong women in my play. Strong leads.' And they've written a strong hooker. Or a strong mother. Or a strong nice girl next door. We have more stories than that. Way more."
Shame, Proudfoot said, can silence those stories. Compared to rom-coms or sunny musicals, plays that take on "unpleasant" topics like rape or domestic violence are few. "We're shamed out of talking about these things," Proudfoot said. "Until fairly recently, we've haven't even dealt much with stories of women loving other women-whether it's a love affair or a deep friendship or a family that doesn't fit traditional gender roles. The gender stratification runs thick and deep."
Shame played a tragically significant role in the life of Artemisia Theatre's namesake. As a young teenager, Gentileschi was raped by one of her father's coworkers, Agostino Tassi. Her father prosecuted Tassi for theft of household goods, the goods being Gentileschi's virginity. Tassi was found guilty. His sentence was not enforced. For the rest of her work, Gentileschi's work often referenced acts of violence.
Working in Hollywood in the '90s and early Aughts, Proudfoot saw countless contemporary versions of that story play out. "I was there when Harvey [Weinstein] was in power. I had friends who called the [actors' union] hotlines. I saw women destroyed," she recalled of her days doing national ad campaigns and shows such as "The Gilmore Girls," "The Practice," and "The Cradle Will Rock."
When Proudfoot returned to Chicago in 2005, she found herself repeatedly auditioning for the same roles in different plays: "Moms who were the moral center, bitchy character parts, neurotic career women. It got frustrating," she said. In 2011, she founded Artemisia Theatre, driven partly by the lack of opportunities for women and partly by the overwhelming dominance of female characters created from a male point of view.
Artemisia's annual festival stands as both entertainment and a reclamation of female stories. Of the six festival plays, Proudfoot will select one to be fully produced next season. Her specs for women characters are clear: "I want women complex enough to have an inner world and an outer world. Women who go through a process of discovery, who learn to master both of those worlds," she said. "I want women who ultimately have agency."
Artemisia's Fall Festival runs at 7:30 p.m. Sept. 24-Oct. 3 at the Edge Theatre, 5451 N. Broadway. For more information, go to http:// artemisiatheatre.org.

Subject: Domestic violence; Theater; Women; Gender; Festivals

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Gentileschi, Artemisia

Company / organization: Name: Google Inc; NAICS: 334310, 519290

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Artemisia Fest fights for femme presentation

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 34

Issue: 1

Pages: 25

Publication year: 2018

Publication date: Sep 19, 2018

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 2133351178

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/artemisia-fest-fights-femme-p resentation/docview/2133351178/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Sep 19, 2018

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

COMMUNITY CALENDAR

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/community-calendar/docview/2108150912/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=50&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=22&amp;date=2018-08-29&amp;atitle=COMMUNITY+CALENDAR&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=50&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=22&amp;date=2018-08-29&amp;atitle=COMMUNITY+CALENDAR&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Wed., Aug. 29
Intersectionality of LGBTQ and Reproductive Rights Leaders from NARAL Pro- Choice America, Planned Parenthood Illinois Action, Howard Brown Health, and Pride Action Tank. Moderated by Illinois State Representative Kelly Cassidy. Free. 7:00pm - 8:30pm Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted Chicago http://act.prochoiceamerica. org/ngpvanforms/17114
Thursday, Aug. 30
Bowie Ball - The Labyrinth Masquerade Celebrate the legend, the chameleon, and the man... David Bowie. Bowiesque DJ sets by Heaven Malone. Mistress of Ceremonies Lucy Stoole. Live Bowie Performance by Max Goldstein of Yoko and the Oh No's Berlin Nightclub 954 W Belmont Ave Chicago http://www.facebook. com/events/1006244546199029/
the kates at Chicago Improv All-female, all bad-ass comedy showcase. $17 7:30pm Chicago Improv, 5 Woodfield Road, Woodfield Mall, Store K120B, Schaumburg 847-240-2001
Friday, Aug. 31
Trans/Gender Affirming Name Change Mobilization Hosted by Transformative Justice Law Project. olunteers will assist Cook County residents with filling out the documents required for a name change. Last Friday of every month in room 1202. 9:00am - 3:00pm Daley Center Plaza 50 W Washington St Chicago http://www.facebook.com/transformativejusticelawproject/
The Sip online show Live show every Friday night, three gay men from diverse occupations and life journeys discuss everything from world headline news to pop culture from a Black LGBTQ perspective. 6:00pm - 7:00pm On line http:// goo.gl/pL7wWA
White Sox Pride Night, BasebALL: One Game For All Ballpark-Wide Celebration for the LGBTQ Community. Sox vs. Boston. Specially priced Pride Night tickets include an Outfield Reserved game ticket, pre-game parade pass, pair of rainbow-colored sunglasses and benefits the You Can Play Project 7:00pm Guaranteed Rate Field http://whitesox.com/ pride
Saturday, Sept. 1
Gay is Good: Homophile Activism before Stonewall Detailing the beginning of the homophile movement in the U.S., its peak during the ECHO and NACHO conferences, and eventual decline after the Stonewall Riots. Through September 10:00am - 4:00am Gerber Hart Library and Archives 6500 N Clark St Chicago http://www.gerberhart.org
Trans Art Is opening event Chicago Therapy Collective event is first in a series on trans/gnc featured artists and pays tribute to legendary gender transgressor David Bowie. Through Sept. 30 7:00pm - 9:00pm Andersonville Galleria, 5247 N Clark St. http://andersonvillegalleria.com
Sunday, Sept. 2
The Oracle Challenger Series Pro tennis A combined ATP Challenger Tour and WTA $125K tennis tournament. Through Sept. 9. To participate as a ballkid or volunteers, email tfey@desertchampions.com 10:00am Chicago's XS Tennis Village, 5336 S. State St. http://oraclechallengerseries.com
Mr and Miss Continental Pageant 2018 Mr and Miss Continental Pageants will be held in Chicago the two days of Labor Day Weekend 2018. 2:00pm The Vic Theatre 3145 N Sheffield Ave Chicago 312-644-5269 http://www.thebatonshowlounge.com
Monday, Sept. 3
Mr and Miss Continental Pageant 2018 Mr and Miss Continental Pageants will be held in Chicago over Labor Day Weekend 2018. 3:00pm The Vic Theatre 3145 N Sheffield Ave Chicago 312-644-5269 http://www.thebatonshowlounge.com
Tuesday, Sept. 4
OUTspoken monthly storytelling evening OUTspoken occurs on the first Tuesday of every month, new storytellers, stories from the perspective of LGBTQ persons Doors 6pm 7:00pm Sidetrack 3349 N Halsted St. Chicago
Bike, Laugh, Heal bicycle/comedy Tour for Futures Without Violence Mara Marek of the Happy Never After podcast and co-host Andrew Collin will raise money to end domestic violence 7:30pm - 9:00pm Under The Gun Theater, 956 Newport Ave. http://m.bpt.me/event/3563164
Latina Continental, Miss & Plus Official Preliminary of The Continental Pageantry System. Doors open 8pm 9:00pm Baton Show Lounge 436 N Clark St Chicago http://thebatonshowlounge.com
Friday, Sept. 7
Latinx Heritage Month LGBTQ Gallery Opening celebrating Latinx Heritage Month with the art of Sandra Antongiorgi, singer, songwriter, and painter from Puerto Rico. 7pm performance by AfriCaribe professional dancers and musicians with traditional drumming and dance of several Puerto Rican 'Bomba' rhythms. Free 6:00pm - 8:00pm Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted Chicago http://www.santongiorgi.com/
Jamaican Fruit & Flowers Artistic Experience A project by two Jamaican American trans men of color. Featuring Armani Dae, Cris Avery. Copies of Jamaican Fruit on sale on Amazon and Kindle. 7:00pm - 10:00pm Mind + Hand, 5400 S Pulaski Rd. 2nd Floor http://events.eventzilla. net/e/jamaican-fruit-flowers-artisticexperience- 2138951662
Saturday, Sept. 8
Peoria Pridefest 2018 One Voice. One Community. Bringing back PRIDE to the Whiskey City. RSVP online to get event updates. 11:00am Peoria RiverFront Events, CEFCU Center Stage @ The Landing in Peoria http://www.peoriaproud. org/events/peoria-pridefest-2018-2
Ride for AIDS Chicago, 15th anniversary Test Positive Aware Network's signature two-day fundraising event where local AIDS Service Organizations, LGBT organizations, and health allies participate to raise money for their own organizations. New route through three different states, ending in a new camp in Michigan. Time:TBA Starting point TBA https://www.tpan.com/rideforaids
Chicago Classic Auto Show with Grand Marshall Larry Klairmont Celebration of automotive history, exhibiting more than 600 automobiles, including rarities, Through Sept. 9. events throughout and Women 'N Wheels Pavilion 10:00am - 8:00pm Donald E. Stephens Convention Center, 5555 N. River Rd., Rosemont http://www.theclassicautoshow. com Tickets: http://www.showclix.com/ event/chicago-classic-auto-show
Wed., Sept. 12
Eric H. Holder Jr 82nd Attorney General of the United States (2009-2015) discusses the pressing issue of voting rights in the United States 7:00pm Auditorium Theatre of Roosevelt University, 50 E Congress Pkwy; 312-341-2300 http://www.auditoriumtheatre.org/shows/aconversation-with-eric-holder/
QUITE CONTINENTAL
Sept. 2-3
The Mr. and Miss Continental pageants will take place at The Vic Theatre.

Subject: Fund raising; Domestic violence; Theater; Pageants

Location: Cook County Illinois; Chicago Illinois; United States--US; Illinois; Puerto Rico; Michigan

People: Bowie, David; Cassidy, Kelly; Holder, Eric H Jr

Company / organization: Name: NARAL Pro-Choice America; NAICS: 813311; Name: Roosevelt University; NAICS: 611310; Name: Project 7; NAICS: 311340; Name: Planned Parenthood; NAICS: 621410, 813319; Name: Woodfield Mall; NAICS: 531120; Name: Congress-US; NAICS: 921120

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: COMMUNITY CALENDAR

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 33

Issue: 50

Pages: 22

Publication year: 2018

Publication date: Aug 29, 2018

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 2108150912

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/community-calendar/docview/2108150912/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Aug 29, 2018

Last updated: 2024-08-28

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

The violence never stops: 16 trans murders already in 2018

Author: Sprayregen, Molly

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/violence-never-stops-16-trans-murders-already/docview/2088014452/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=46&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2018-08-01&amp;atitle=The+violence+never+stops%3A+16+trans+murders+already+in+2018&amp;au=Sprayregen%2C+Molly&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=46&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2018-08-01&amp;atitle=The+violence+never+stops%3A+16+trans+murders+already+in+2018&amp;au=Sprayregen%2C+Molly&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Christa Leigh Steele-Knudslien was the first known transgender person to be killed in 2018. The 42-year-old was arguing with her husband, Mark Steel-Knudslien, when he stabbed and beat her to death. Christa was the founder of the Miss Trans America and Miss Trans New England pageants. Her friend, Justin, told NBC News that she wanted trans women to be seen as beautiful.
Since her murder, at least 15 more trans people have been killed in the United States. The latest were Sasha Garden, 27, of Orlando, Florida, and Diamond Stephens, 39, of Meridian, Mississippi.
We are in the midst of a crisis. Transgender people, especially trans women of color, are at an extremely high risk of violence. Last year, the Human Rights Campaign reported a record number of violence-based deaths of trans people: 28. The violence is not relenting.
Through an examination of data and conversations with experts, this investigative feature explores the threats trans and gender nonconforming people face every day. It investigates the motivations behind this violence and the identities of the perpetrators and the victims. It examines the cultural norms that have allowed so many trans people to live in danger for so long, and it addresses the information we still don't have. Finally, it acknowledges that change isn't possible overnight, but it is possible.
The Seeds of Violence
Why are trans people at such high risk of violence? There is no single answer, but experts say the seeds of this violence lie within the cultural and systemic devaluation of transgender lives and bodies.
"Ultimately, there aren't enough people that value and respect the humanity of other folks, especially trans folks and especially trans women of color," said Angelica D'Souza, the LGBTQ & Hate Crime Victim Specialist with the Cook County State's Attorney's Office. "At the end of the day, you're not going to perpetrate violence against somebody that you value as a person. That's the fundamental problem."
This lack of value our culture has for trans people is perpetuated through the basic rights we regularly deny them-like jobs, housing and healthcare.
The unemployment rate for trans respondents to the 2015 U.S. Transgender Survey was 15%, compared to a then 5% unemployment rate for the general U.S. population. In addition, 29% of respondents were living in poverty, compared to 12% of the general U.S. population, and 23% experienced housing discrimination within a year of the survey while 30% said they have been homeless at some point in their lives.
The survey also showed that 33% of respondents who visited a doctor within a year of the survey had a negative experience due to being transgender, and 23% did not visit a doctor when they needed to due to fear of mistreatment. In 2015, the Movement Advancement Project found that 15% of trans people earn less than $10,000 per year.
The continuous denial of basic rights for trans people not only maintains the stigma surrounding them, but it also physically places them in more danger by blocking their access to safe places to work, live and sleep. Twenty six percent of those who experienced homelessness within a year of the survey did not go to a shelter due to fear of mistreatment based on their gender identity, and 70% of those who sought refuge at a shelter said they were mistreated because they were transgender.
Lisa Gilmore, a licensed clinical professional counselor who focuses on LGBTQ-specific antiviolence, works from the theory that "the more social stigma somebody faces, the higher their vulnerability to violence and the lower their access to safety is. If we don't provide people with shelter and safety they are going to be more vulnerable to more severe violence and death," she said.
Trans people seeking refuge from an abusive partner or who are kicked out of their homes often have nowhere to turn. "They end up on the street or staying in the relationship," Gilmore said. "They're going to be at a higher risk for violence. When you're out and about all the time and doing what you have to do to survive, you are at risk for violence, you are at risk for people thinking you are less than somehow, therefore it is easier."
LaSaia Wade, founder and executive director of Brave Space Alliance, the first Black-led, transled, LGBTQ center on Chicago's South Side, believes people's discomfort with her Black, transgender body is a projection of their discomfort with their own bodies.
"What is it about my body that makes you so uncomfortable about your body?" Wade asked. "Is it because I'm living my truth and you're not living your truth? People don't want to look in their own mirror."
Wade believes people are afraid of being true to themselves. "People don't want to sit with that these days. That is not only killing my people, but it's killing everyone else. It's killing people leftand right and it's sure as hell fucking up this country."
Types of Violence
Trans people are at risk of many types of violence, but intimate partner violence (IPV) is one huge issue the community faces.
The 2015 U.S. Transgender Survey found that 54% of respondents experienced IPV, with 24% having experienced severe physical violence at the hands of an intimate partner. This is 6% higher than the general U.S. population. Additionally, the 2016 National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs Intimate Partner Violence Report found that "Transgender women were 2.5 times more likely to be stalked, 2.5 times more likely to experience financial violence, and 2 times more likely to experience online harassment within IPV, compared to survivors who were not transgender women."
Even with IPV, though, anti-transgender bias can be involved. "I don't think violence against trans women is anything other than bias motivated," said D'Souza. "Because even when there are instances of domestic violence, from the folks that I've worked with I've heard things like, 'I outed him,' 'He got violent because people found out about who I was and that was unacceptable to him.' Or, 'no one was supposed to find out about me.' Or it's about toxic masculinity and it's about patriarchy and it's about all of those things and at the end of the day it often is because of this person's identity in one way or another."
According to Forge, a national transgender anti-violence organization, there are many abuse tactics used specifically against trans people in instances of intimate partner violence, such as threatening to out someone, hiding or throwing away hormones, and belittling their identity by telling them they are not a "real" woman or man. Additionally, what makes trans victims of IPV so vulnerable is their lack of access to services that could save them from their situation as well as the common fear of involving law enforcement.
In the 2015 U.S. Transgender Survey, 22% of people who visited a domestic violence shelter, a domestic violence program, or a rape crisis center at which the staffknew they were transgender were mistreated.
Forty seven percent of respondents to the survey also reported being sexually assaulted at some point in their lives. Trans people who have been homeless, those with disabilities, and those who have participated in sex work reported sexual assaults in even higher numbers.
PART TWO
What We Know: Who are the Victims?
Trans people of all genders are at risk of violence, but the combination of rampant transphobia, sexism and racism puts trans women of color in the most danger.
According to the 2017 A Time to Act report by the Human Rights Campaign and Trans People of Color Coalition, trans women are four times as likely to be the victims of homicide compared to the general population of women in the United States. Between 2013 and 2017, HRC and TPOCC have recorded 102 acts of fatal violence against transgender people. At least 88 of the victims were trans women and at least 87 of the victims were people of color.
According to the National Association of Anti- Violence Programs, violence against trans women of color is getting worse. The number of homicides of trans women of color has grown steadily over the past five years, from 12 hate violence homicides in 2013 to 22 in 2017 (though some reports are as high as 28).
Who are the perpetrators?
There are too many perpetrators of violence against trans people to name, too much data acknowledging the presence of attackers in the workplace, in public places, at home, in jails, in immigration detention centers. Trans people are attacked by police, by loved ones, and by strangers. Perpetrators of this violence are everywhere.
Tools of violence
The A Time to Act report found that of the 102 transgender homicides between 2013 and 2017, 61 of the victims died from gunshot wounds.
The 2015 U.S. Transgender Survey found that, while 3% of overall respondents had been attacked with a gun in the past year, trans women of color were four times more likely to be attacked with a gun than other trans people. Those working in the underground economy were more than three times as likely to be the victims of gun violence and those with their only source of income being from the underground economy were more than five times as likely to have been attacked with a gun.
What We Don't Know
According to Naomi Goldberg, the Policy & Research Director at the Movement Advancement Project, there is no national government-sponsored survey that includes a question relating to trans people and their experiences.
While the FBI began collecting hate crime statistics in 2013, Angelica D'Souza, the LGBTQ & Hate Crime Victim Specialist with the Cook County State's Attorney's Office, said it is based only on data from states who are willing to report it. Beyond that, bad experiences with police and other law enforcement means many trans people likely do not report crimes committed against them at all. Fifty seven percent of respondents to the 2015 U.S. Transgender Survey said they would not be comfortable seeking help from the police.
"So much of the big systems-level response is based around reporting to law enforcement or reporting to victims services," said Gilmore. "So first of all, do you even feel like you can report it? Do you, as a transgender person, a transgender woman, recognize that these systems and laws also should be things that you have access to, that you have a right to support from, and a right for those places to be accountable to providing you with safety?
"Do you even think that based on your past experiences with other service providers or law enforcements or courts? Medical providers? What are all these reasons why you might not or why you might? And then how do those people respond to you? Do they mark it and indicate what kind of violence it is? Do they let you tell them what the violence is? Do they let you tell them how you identify? Does someone automatically put you in the category of male because they assume that you were assigned male at birth? If you say, I'm a woman, do they mark you as a woman or do they make a note that you're a transgender woman? Who knows? So yes, how do we get the data?"
Gilmore said the only way data is currently being collected is by organizations doing victims services who have created their own way to collect it and make it available. "So we're not getting a uniform way of collecting that data. It's hard to try to extrapolate, to say okay if we got 300 reports of violence against transgender women this past year what does that mean in terms of percentage? Well, we don't know. We don't know what to compare it to."
Additionally, standard domestic violence studies and surveys may not include a place for victims to identify themselves as anything other than male or female, which makes it very difficult to know whether trans women are included in stats about women on the whole. For example, the National Intimate Partner and Sexual Violence Survey put out by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control breaks down all of their data by whether violence is happening to a man or a woman. The word transgender does not appear in their 2015 report.
PART THREE
The Services Trans People Don't Have
"You can't talk about violence against trans women and not talk about having decreased access to mental health services and decreased access to substance abuse services and decreased access to medical services and assault on immigrants," said Angelica D'Souza of the Cook County State's Attorney's Office. "It's all interwoven, and if you're somebody who is amongst the most that society marginalizes, you're even further excluded from services."
There is a massive need for more LGBTQ-affirming services, for more shelters, legal, and health services to provide gender-affirming support. "It's unacceptable that the places that in our society we have said are the places that are supposed to help survivors of violence often are places where LGBTQ people experience victimization again in forms of either discrimination or verbal violence or physical violence and sexual violence," said Gilmore.
She added some of the most important work she does is with organizations around policies for how their staffand volunteers work with LGBTQ people-essentially teaching them how to serve anyone who is not a cisgender woman. Most systems currently in place have been designed to exclusively keep cisgender women safe and do not have policies in place to help anyone else.
Even services that may be available to victims beyond cisgender women may not give the appearance that they are welcoming, said D'Souza. The Chicago Battered Women's Network, for example, alienates those who do not identify as women just by its name. And on the website of the National Domestic Violence Hotline, it calls itself "the vital link to safety for women, men, children, and families affected by domestic violence." Where does that leave trans and gender nonconforming people?
"There's a huge lack of competent care in the behavioral health and mental health fields," said D'Souza, "Even from folks that are LGBT affirming. Someone's whole life is not just that they're trans. People are whole people, so there's definitely a need for more competent and more affirming services, but there are definitely efforts underway that need support, that need money. Shit costs money, and without it it's hard to have a reach, but the folks who are doing the work are doing a lot of work with little money."
Regarding the National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs 2016 Intimate Partner Violence Report, Emily Waters, NCAVP's Senior Manager of National Research and Policy, emphasized the need for community support and resources. "Rather than primarily focusing on prosecution of intimate partner violence as a "violent crime," as it is currently being framed by [U.S. Attorney General] JeffSessions, the Department of Justice should support and devote resources to LGBTQ organizations and groups that are working to address IPV from within the community," she said.
Gilmore agrees. "There's very little prevention resources for anti-LGBTQ violence that I know of," she said. "Most of the resources for victimization have to do with responding after victimization has already occurred. Most of the resources are built around these systems that broader society has set up that are about punishing and criminalizing and giving victims band aids and support and just get away from that person who is violent towards you."
The Services Trans People Do Have-in Chicago
Brave Space Alliance is the first Black-led, trans-led LGBTQ community center on the South Side of Chicago. According to LaSaia Wade, many trans victims of violence come to BSA for help. While BSA is not equipped to assist directly, they maintain a network of partnerships to domestic violence shelters, homeless shelters, and housing initiatives, all of which have undergone BSA's training in how to provide affirming services for trans people.
"We actually listen to what people need," Wade said, "and have that discussion with homeless shelters and push them to be politically aware of what's happening in the world."
BSA helps trans people with leadership development, access to jobs, and community, with the goal of creating a brave space where trans and queer people feel empowered to use their voices and speak out. For those on the West Side, Wade suggests Project Vida, and on the North Side, Howard Brown Health and its Broadway Youth Center.
Also on the West Side, Reyna Ortiz and her team do outreach work and programs through the TaskForce Prevention and Community Services. The Center on Halsted also has transgender services, as does Chicago House, through their TransLife and TransSafe programs.
Stopping the Violence
"Reducing violence is simpler than we think," said Wade. "Education." Educating people can happen in all sorts of ways. She emphasizes the need to educate people both beyond the LGBTQ community and within it-because discrimination happens within the community as well. The most productive conversations Wade has, she said, are with young people, who have not yet been "tainted" with prejudice. "If we start with our youth before any and everything," she said, "We don't have to worry about anything."
While we do need laws to change and we do need better policies, keeping trans people safe means doing more than that. It means fundamentally reshaping the way our culture views the transgender community. It means giving trans people access to jobs, healthcare and housing. It means honoring their pronouns and giving them representation in media as three-dimensional people who are more than their gender identities. It means raising children with a greater awareness of gender fluidity and teaching them not to hate what is different. Erasing a stigma that is so deeply embedded in society cannot happen overnight, but it must happen.
Wade acknowledges there has been some progress. "We're being seen in spaces we've never been seen," she said. "I am an ED. I have the chance to go into these spaces and push political knowledge. Most LGBT ED's are white or make $100,000 and above. So what does it look like when we have the same power? We might not have the same money, but what does it look like when we have the same power, saying yes or no in these physical spaces we normally do not have access to?"
Wade encourages more open and honest conversations in all communities about what people need to be their best and fullest selves. This, she believes, will begin to open the door for acceptance. "If the darkest, blackest trans woman is free," she says, "Everyone is free."
Sidebar Murders of Transgender and GNC People in U.S., 2018
Source: Human Rights Campaign
https://www.hrc.org/resources/violence-against-the-transgender-community-in-2018
Christa Leigh Steele-Knudslien, 42, was found dead in her home on January 5 in North Adams, Massachusetts. Steele-Knudslien organized and produced the Miss Trans New England and other pageants, and was loved and known by many in both the local and national trans community.
Viccky Gutierrez, 33, a transgender woman from Honduras was stabbed and had her body set ablaze inside her Los Angeles home on January 10. Friends described her as "a young trans Latina immigrant woman whose warm smile would give anyone comfort."
Tonya Harvey, 35, was fatally shot on February 6 in Buffalo, New York. A friend of Harvey's expressed her condolences on Facebook, writing: "I knew her since I started transitioning, she was so sweet and loving." Police have confirmed they are looking into the incident as a possible hate crime.
Celine Walker, 36, was fatally shot in a hotel room on on February 4 in Jacksonville, Florida. It was not known for several days that Walker was trans because local police claimed to not refer to victims as transgender. Investigators are still looking for a suspect in her death.
Phylicia Mitchell, 45, was shot and killed outside her home on February 23 in Cleveland, Ohio. On April 10, Cleveland.com reported that a warrant has been issued for the arrest of Gary Sanders. Sanders was charged with aggravated murder in Mitchell's death. Her longtime partner, Shane Mitchell, described her as "funny and kind" and that "everyone loved her."
Zakaria Fry, 28, went missing in New Mexico in mid-January. Her body was later found 40 miles outside of Albuquerque on February 19. Albuquerque Police arrested and charged Charles Spiess with two open counts of murder. Fry's loved ones shared comondolences on Facebook with one friend saying: "You were my older sister. You took care of me and loved me like family. I'll forever love you. I'm sorry."
Amia Tyrae Berryman, 28, was fatally shot at a local motel on March 26 in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Few details are known about the crime, and police report they have no suspects or persons of interest at this time.
Sasha Wall, 29, a transgender woman of color, was fatally shot on April 1 in Chesterfield County, South Carolina. The FBI is assisting with local investigators, and are analyzing phone records and collecting DNA evidence. Donovan Dunlap, a friend of Wall's, expressed condolences on Facebook, writing, "I will miss you my beautiful sister. I cannot sleep, I hope they find who did this."
Karla Patricia Flores-Pavón, 26, was found choked to death in her apartment in Dallas, Texas, on May 9. Dallas Police arrested 24-yearold Jimmy Eugene Johnson III on May 17, charging him with Flores- Pavón's murder. "It hurts a lot, you were a good-hearted person. Sister, fly high. We will remember you with love. Your beautiful smile will stay with us," a friend posted on her Facebook page.
Nino Fortson, 36, was fatally shot in Atlanta on May 13. City police were nearby executing a traffic stop and rushed to the scene, but Forston later died at the hospital, said transgender advocate Monica Roberts.
Gigi Pierce, 28, was fatally shot on May 21 in Portland, Oregon. When officers arrived they tried to administer aid, but Pierce died at the scene. Police investigators say they believe that Pierce was shot during an altercation with Sophia Adler, who has been charged with Pierce's murder, according to KGW-TV.
Antash'a English, 38, was fatally injured in drive-by shooting in Jacksonville, Florida on June 1. On her Facebook page, English described herself as an "independent" transgender woman who "thrives on being the best person" she can be. The Jacksonville Sheriff's Office has declared an active murder investigation and asks anyone with information to contact their office.
Cathalina Christina James, 24, was fatally shot in Jacksonville, Florida, on June 24. In an interview with First Coast News, James' mother described her daughter as having a "big and bold" personality, saying she loved to dance and travel. James is the third transgender woman murdered and the fourth shot in the Florida city this year.
Keisha Wells, 58, was found dead with a gunshot wound to her abdomen in the parking lot of an apartment complex on June 24, according to Cleveland.com. A longtime friend of Wells described her as "the nicest person ever" but also a "tough cookie."
Sasha Garden, 27, was found dead with signs of trauma in Orlando, Florida, early July 19. Originally from Wisconsin, Garden is remembered by loved ones as a "firecracker" who "didn't hold anything back." Friend and local transgender activist Mulan Montrese Williams recalls that Garden was a talented and aspiring hair stylist and had been saving money to fund her transition.
Diamond Stephens, 39, was found shot to death on June 18 in Meridian, Mississippi. In interviews with a local television station, family members said that Stephens had an "incredible personality." As is too often the case in the reporting of anti-transgender violence, Stephens was originally misgendered in local police statements and media reports, which delayed our awareness of this deadly incident.

Subject: Domestic violence; Criminal investigations; Women; Civil rights; Gender identity; Homeless people; Transgender persons; Unemployment; Economic conditions

Business indexing term: Subject: Unemployment Economic conditions

Location: Florida; United States--US; Mississippi

Company / organization: Name: Facebook Inc; NAICS: 516210, 518210

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: The violence never stops: 16 trans murders already in 2018

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 33

Issue: 46

Pages: 8-11

Publication year: 2018

Publication date: Aug 1, 2018

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2088014452

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/violence-never-stops-16-trans-murders-already/docview/2088014452/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Aug 1, 2018

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Dishing with Christine Ebersole and Seth Rudetsky

Author: Sullivan, Catey

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dishing-with-christine-ebersole-seth-rudetsky/docview/2081751209/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=45&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=17&amp;date=2018-07-25&amp;atitle=Dishing+with+Christine+Ebersole+and+Seth+Rudetsky&amp;au=Sullivan%2C+Catey&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=45&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=17&amp;date=2018-07-25&amp;atitle=Dishing+with+Christine+Ebersole+and+Seth+Rudetsky&amp;au=Sullivan%2C+Catey&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Dishing with Christine Ebersole and Seth Rudetsky
Listen to Seth Rudetsky's dishy Sirius/XM radio program Seth Speaks and you'll hear a mix of Broadway gossip, obsessively deconstructed showtunes and witty chit-chat. It's not always overt, but Rudetsky instills his shows with something else as well.
"Everything I do has a social-justice element," Rudetsky told Windy City Times during an brief interval between tapings, concerts and host/ emcee duties on luxury cruises aimed at fellow musical theater superfans. "I feel like anything artistic is part of the quote unquote resistance. That is obviously important right now."
On Monday, July 30, Rudetsky will bring his singular Broadway stylings the Steppenwolf Theatre for a 90-minute live show with two-time Tony winner Christine Ebersole (Grey Gardens; War Paint; 42nd Street; TV's Pose). The raconteur will interview the actress about her lives on and off the stage. It's a safe bet that Ebersole will punctuate the banter with numbers from her 40+year Broadway career.
"I always say I can get people to reveal things they haven't told anyone but their therapist," Rudetsky said. "I think that's because when they talk to me, even big stars realize things they're nervous about revealing aren't necessarily big deals. Plus, they know I'm not going to make them look bad. And P.S., I've been in therapy myself for 325 years."
Ebersole, a Winnetka native and New Trier alum, is arguably best known to Chicago audiences for playing Elizabeth Arden in War Paint opposite Patti LuPone's Helena Rubenstein. War Paint premiered at the Goodman Theatre in 2016 before going to Broadway. Ebersole and Rudetsky have been friends for decades, dating back to his days as a writer on the Rosie O'Donnell Show, where Ebersole was a frequent guest. They've performed together from New York to Provincetown, Massachusetts, as well as on the high seas during the "Big Fat Broadway Cruises" Rudetsky enthuses that he "absolutely loves, loves, loves."
"Seth's unbridled enthusiasm about Broadway is contagious," said Ebersole from her New Jersey home. "We always have a ball."
Like the free-wheeling interviews on Rudetsky's radio show, the Steppenwolf show isn't scripted. That said, Ebersole is more than likely to break out numbers from War Paint and Grey Gardens.
"What's interesting to me is hearing people put the songs they sing in context," Rudetsky said. "When you know what a song means to someone, what their history with it is-that makes it fascinating."
While Ebersole is a bona fide Broadway star, Rudetsky is the unofficial spiller of Broadway secrets. His knowledge of Broadway is encyclopedic, affectionate and acerbic. ("Christine's Broadway debut was in 1975. P.S.: The show closed two weeks after she joined the cast.")
On his radio show and in live performances, the fast-paced anecdotes range from hilarious to poignant. But along with wildly entertaining story-telling (Andrea McArdle's secret candy stash sending a rain of M&Ms skittering across the stage during a climactic moment in Les Miserables; Priscilla Lopez peeing onstage during A Chorus Line; Wicked's Shoshana Bean failing to defy gravity during Defying Gravity, thanks to a malfunctioning cherry picker), Rudetsky brings what he deems an "undercurrent" of social justice to his multiple platforms.
He's done countless fund-raisers for everything from synagogues to the Sierra Club. He's ramped up his efforts over the past two years, launching (with his husband, James Wesley) the Concert for America series.
"Every month since the presidential election, we've done a concert to raise money for the groups being targeted. The NAACP, the Immigration Law Center, the Southern Poverty Law Center, the National Coalition against Domestic Violence-I feel like I have the means to make a difference. So that's what I try to do," he said. With the all-star concert recording What the World Needs Now (available on iTunes), he's has raised more than $100,000 for Pulse victims.
The theater community itself isn't immune to the same sort of stereotyping that the larger world engages in, he said.
"Musical theater is full of gay people, but there are comparatively few actual gay characters in Broadway musicals who aren't the quippy side-kick," he said. "Every time I see a casting breakdown describing a 'flamboyant co-worker' or 'sassy best friend' I get angry," he said. "It's better now than it was-Falsettos was ground breaking. So was A Chorus Line and Applause. We've got Fun Home. But those kinds of characters are still very few and far between."
"Music and lyrics can open up a person's mind," he said. "They can also be amazingly entertaining."
Seth Rudetsky and Christine Ebersole will perform Monday, July 30, at Steppenwolf Theatre, 1650 N. Halsted St. Tickets are $50; visit Steppenwolf.org.

Subject: Fund raising; Musical theater; Broadway theater

Location: Chicago Illinois; New York; Massachusetts; New Jersey; United States--US

People: O Donnell, Rosie

Company / organization: Name: National Association for the Advancement of Colored People--NAACP; NAICS: 813311; Name: Sierra Club; NAICS: 813312; Name: Southern Poverty Law Center; NAICS: 541110, 813311; Name: Windy City Times; NAICS: 513110; Name: Goodman Theatre; NAICS: 512131

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Dishing with Christine Ebersole and Seth Rudetsky

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 33

Issue: 45

Pages: 17

Publication year: 2018

Publication date: Jul 25, 2018

Section: PERFORMANCE

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Performance Review

ProQuest document ID: 2081751209

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dishing-with-christine-ebersole-seth-rudetsky/docview/2081751209/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jul 25, 2018

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Wachowski exhibit featured at Rush's Pride reception

Author: Maxwell, Carrie

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wachowski-exhibit-featured-at-rushs-pride/docview/2063293695/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=41&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=39&amp;date=2018-06-27&amp;atitle=Wachowski+exhibit+featured+at+Rush%27s+Pride+reception&amp;au=Maxwell%2C+Carrie&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=41&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=39&amp;date=2018-06-27&amp;atitle=Wachowski+exhibit+featured+at+Rush%27s+Pride+reception&amp;au=Maxwell%2C+Carrie&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Filmmaker, writer and artist Lilly Wachowski's "Say Our Names" exhibit was featured at the Rush University Medical Center's 5th annual Pride Month reception June 20 on the Medical Center's West Side campus.
Chicago Department of Public Health (CDPH) LGBTQ Community Liaison Antonio King was the featured speaker. He invoked luminaries and trailblazers in the LGBTQ community such as Harvey Milk, Bayard Rustin, Audre Lorde, Jane Addams, Rock Hudson, Marsha P. Johnson, Sylvia Rivera and Willi Ninja who made it possible for the many Pride Month celebrations that take place in Chicago.
King said he is charged with "enhancing the well-being of LGBTQ residents in Chicago, including equitable health care delivery."
"The LGBTQ Health and Outreach program addresses related quality of life issues, such as: unemployment, housing, safety, bullying, domestic and intimate partner violence and other quality of life challenges that ultimately affect the health of the LGBTQ community," said King. "We also address high rates of smoking and obesity, challenges that LGBTQ persons have in accessing care and other direct health concerns."
King said the CDPH is honored to be in a relationship with Rush, citing what he said was the important work the medical center does as well as its continued commitment to LGBTQ-inclusive policies for patients and employees. He said the CDPH is, for the first time, presenting sexual and gender minority health status data for LGBT youth and adults in Chicago in a report: The LGBT Health Databook.
This data is vital for Chicago's health improvement plan Healthy Chicago 2.0 because sexual and gender minorities are a priority population for a number of the plan's goals, said King. Additionally, King explained that Mayor Rahm Emanuel and the CDPH have committed to decreasing HIV infection rates with the Getting to Zero campaign. King said the campaign wants to have zero new infections and zero people living with HIV who are not receiving treatment by 2027.
Among the other speakers were; Rush University Medical Center and Rush System (Medical Center, Rush Oak Park Hospital and Rush Copley Medical Center in Aurora) President Michael Dandorph, Rush University Medical Center LGBTQ Leadership Council Co-chairs Brandy Hatcher and Christopher Nolan, Rush University Medical Center LGBTQ Employee Resource Group leader and LGBTQ Leadership Council member Billy Dishuk and Rush University Student Diversity and Multicultural Affairs Director Kate Webster.
Webster spoke about how great it is to be able to have a picture of her and her wife in her office because of Rush's LGBTQ-inclusive policies.
"When we have to cover parts of our identity we are not able to produce our best work," said Webster.
Dishuk said being gay has never been a barrier to him working at Rush.
Dandorph explained that Rush's commitment to diversity has a positive impact on the entire system and each year this event has grown in attendance (approximately 150 people this year). He also mentioned the steady increase in people from Rush marching in Chicago's Pride Parade over the past few years.
In terms of creating an environment that values diversity, Dandorph said the key is to include it in everything they do in the Rush system. One of the ways Rush does this is by having diverse patient and student populations. Dandorph explained that for ten years Rush in Chicago has held a leadership status with the Human Rights Campaign's Healthcare Equality Index (HEI) with a 100 percent score each year. He said Rush Oak Park has had a 100 percent score for the past five years while Rush Copley is on its way to achieving a 100 percent score.
Hatcher spoke about Rush's collaboration with Project Fierce, the existence of all gender bathrooms at the Chicago and Oak Park locations (they are working on having them at the Copley location) and the hospital's participation in this year's LGBTQ job fair at the Center on Halsted.
Nolan said the LGBTQ Leadership Council was created to move Rush to the next level. He explained that there is still more work to be done, especially in today's political climate where the Affordable Care Act is under attack, including the 1557 guidance that helps the LGBTQ community.
Speaking with Windy City Times, Wachowski explained that her family's history with the hospital goes back to when her mom worked there and has continued to this day, including her exhibit being displayed in Rush's Searle Conference Center until July 6.
To read about the HEI, visit https://www.rush. edu/news/press-releases/rush-again-leads-lgbtq-health-equality.
See https://www.rush.edu/about-us/commitment-lgbtq-health-care and https://www.cityofchicago.org/city/en/depts/cdph/supp_info/ healthy-communities/lgbt_health.html for more information.

Subject: Quality of life; Human immunodeficiency virus--HIV; Councils; Health care; Gender; Multiculturalism & pluralism; Leadership

Business indexing term: Subject: Leadership

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Johnson, Sylvia; Hudson, Rock; Nolan, Christopher; Lorde, Audre; Wachowski, Lilly; Emanuel, Rahm; Addams, Jane (1860-1935); Rustin, Bayard (1912-1987)

Company / organization: Name: Rush University Medical Center; NAICS: 622110; Name: Human Rights Campaign; NAICS: 813311; Name: Windy City Times; NAICS: 513110; Name: Department of Public Health-Chicago IL; NAICS: 923120

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Wachowski exhibit featured at Rush's Pride reception

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 33

Issue: 41

Pages: 39-40

Publication year: 2018

Publication date: Jun 27, 2018

Section: PRIDE COVERAGE 2018

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 2063293695

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wachowski-exhibit-featured-at-rushs-pride/docview/2063293695/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jun 27, 2018

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

19TH ANNUAL 30 UNDER THIRTY HONORS

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/19th-annual-30-under-thirty-honors/docview/2063752660/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=40&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=55&amp;date=2018-06-20&amp;atitle=19TH+ANNUAL+30+UNDER+THIRTY+HONORS&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=40&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=55&amp;date=2018-06-20&amp;atitle=19TH+ANNUAL+30+UNDER+THIRTY+HONORS&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: WED JUNE 20
POLO CAFE
3322 S. MORGAN ST.
RECEPTION: 5:30PM
PROGRAM: 6-7:30PM
ADMISSION: FREE
GRAYSON ALEXANDER
Grayson, 19, is a rising sophomore at Loyola University Chicago studying political science and sociology-anthropology. In 2017, he became the first transgender page in the Illinois state Senate's history and was a key advocate for the Vital Records Modernization Act.
Currently a member of Equality Illinois's Community Advisory Group, an intern for Illinois state Rep. Ann Williams and friend of the Illinois Safe Schools Alliance, Grayson continues his involvement with LGBT activism and passion for youth-inclusive advocacy.
Did you know? Grayson first wrote his personal platform at 8 years old on his grandmother's coffee table, after watching an Obama campaign speech.
MYAH BROWN
Myah, 27, was born and raised on the South Side of Chicago in the Englewood area, where being Black and Trans continues to be a struggle. No stranger to homelessness and having to drop out of high school in the ninth grade to help raise her little sisters and brothers, Myah proved to be able to overcome hardships. Since then, Myah has become a health outreach specialist at the University of Chicago Medicine Chicago Center for HIV Elimination (CCHE) and program director for Brave Space Alliance (BSA), the first Black trans-ed organization on the South Side of Chicago; through these roles, she has helped others like herself overcome similar obstacles.
Did you know? Being family-oriented and having a passion for life, people, and the performing arts and attaining many leadership qualities developed early on, Myah became not only mother of the Chicago Chapter of the House of Mizrahi but also, in 2017, was deemed Legendary for the Femme Queen Vogue Performance category.
DELWYN CAMP
Devlyn, 25, is the creator and host of the podcast Mattachine: A Serialized Story in Gay History, available on iTunes and recently featured in the Chicago Tribune. They are also the producer and co-host of They & Them, a queer talk show on Que4 1680 AM, and a writer of middle-grade historical fantasy. They studied writing & producing television at Columbia College Chicago.
Did you know? Devlyn has been looking for their aunt Maris Crane since 2004. If anyone has seen Seattle socialite Maris Crane, please contact Devlyn. (This name is a reference to the TV show Frasier.)
TONANTZIN CARMONA
Tonantzin, 28, is the chief of policy for the Office of the City Clerk. In her current role, Tonantzin leads City Clerk Anna Valencia's citywide policy priorities, most notably in launching the Chicago Municipal ID program, known as the CityKey. The CityKey has been championed by advocates from the immigrant and LGBTQ communities and well as those experiencing homelessness. Because of Tonantzin's leadership, the CityKey program allows Chicago residents to self-designate their own gender, including a third-option, nonbinary; making Chicago the first municipality in Illinois to recognize a third-gender option.
Tonantzin previously served as U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren's deputy press secretary in Washington, D.C., as well as deputy policy director and director of the Office of New Americans at the Chicago mayor's office. In 2015, Tonantzin was recognized for her work in Crain's Chicago Business "20 in Their 20's." Tonantzin was raised in Chicago's Little Village and currently resides in Pilsen.
Did you know? Tonantzin is buying a couch for the first time in her life, at age 28.
SKY CUBACUB
Sky, 26, is a non-binary Filipinx mermex from Chicago (with a certificate from Weeki Wachee Springs State Park to prove it!) and the creator of Rebirth Garments-a line of wearables for the full spectrum of gender, size and ability.
They are spearheading the QueerCrip dress reform movement that is based on claiming one's body through the use of bright colors, exuberant fabrics, and innovative design. They refuse to assimilate. Sky is also editor of The Radical Visibilty Zine, a magazine for QueerCrip Teens based off their manifesto, as well as a leader in anti-oppression accessibility workshops with Alison Kopit. For more information, visit RebirthGarments.com.
Did you know? Earlier this year, Sky took part in the Chicago's History Museum's Out at CHM event "Celebrating and Contextualizing Queer Fashion."
SARAH DAOUD
Sarah is a 27-year-old Palestinian-Lebanese therapist, educator, social worker, and Chicago Dyke March Collective organizer. Since transitioning from investigative journalism to direct service, Sarah has dived into social work through several different avenues: performer in participatory educational theater, sexual assault crisis counselor, teaching artist in Chicago Public Schools, organizer and facilitator with the Illinois Caucus for Adolescent Health, resource advocate at the Broadway Youth Center, and most recently, therapist at the Chicago Women's Health Center.
Sarah recently graduated from the University of Chicago with a masters in clinical social work, and has been awarded a grant from the Elton John AIDS Foundation to offer support and care to Syrian and Palestinian refugees in Paris this summer. Upon their return, Sarah will continue to provide affirming care and education to QTBIPOC (queer, trans·, Black, indigenous, people of color) from a harm-reduction lens. In our increasingly harmful world, Sarah is dedicated to supporting their community as they learn to love themselves, radically and unapologetically, reach their goals, live authentically and gain a deeper understanding of their histories, resilience and power.
Did you know? Sarah is a prison abolitionist, which means they work toward a world without prisons or police. #N°CopAcademy
RAVEN FEAGINS
Raven, 25, is a storyteller with an interest in capturing the narratives of people of color, folks within LGBTQ+ communities, women and non-binary folks, young people and people living within the intersections of all these identities.
In 2015, Raven graduated from Columbia College Chicago, with a major in cultural studies and minor in women and gender studies, where they completed a capstone project focused on media representations of people living with HIV and the lack of representation of the epidemic among Black women.
This led Raven to eventually serve as an AmeriCorps member with the AIDS Foundation of Chicago (AFC) where she realized a passion for advocating for comprehensive sex education as well as a draw towards capturing the stories of people within the HIV community in Chicago. Through that year and on, Raven has lead a sex-positive digital awareness campaign, Sexperts Slay, that promotes real and honest conversations about sexual health and has raised the voices of over two dozen individuals in her work.
Now, Raven works as the communications coordinator at AFC, where they hope to continue connecting with folks and provide a platform for underrepresented communities whose stories are often not heard.
Did you know? Raven loves any reason to dress up in costume. One of her favorite outfits is that of Tina Belcher from Bob's Burgers!
KA'RIEL GAITER
Ka'Riel, 28, currently works as the youth development specialist at the Broadway Youth Center (BYC), but has previously worked with YEPP (Youth Empowerment Performance Project), and with the Chicago youth storage initiative. At the BYC, Ka'Riel also does crisis intervention and creative program development that meet specific needs emerging in the space.
They always make sure the conversation is centering on young people from trauma-informed and transformative-justice lenses. They have no doubt they made this city safer for young people experiencing homelessness, and helped to expand their service lines and improve the quality of care and compassion they do receive at institutions.
Did you know? Ka'Riel's nickname is "Indigo Child."
DAVID GAUNA
David, 25, is an artist, community advocate and mentor born in Chicago.
Co-founder of Creative Action, an after-school program that mentors high school youth in areas of self-resilience, community organizing and social awareness through the arts. Much of David's leadership growth comes from the Association of Latinos/as Motivating Action (ALMA) board, for whom David serves as the liaison for its associate board.
Although the job titles and the style of how David mentors young people has grown and shifted in different environments over the years, one tradition David has held onto with his youth is gifting them their first sketch artist journal and a pen. Inside the front cover of their journal is written David's mantra: "If it matters to you, write it down."
David currently spends his time as a case manager for El Rescate, serving LGBTQ and/or HIV-positive youth experiencing homelessness, while leading his art program across the city making sure his youth have the tools necessary to become successful. David feels grateful to have the opportunity to work with incredible youth.
Did you know? At 15, David's career goal was to become a famous actor.
RYAN GARRISON
Ryan, 29, is a non-profit leader who has tended his energy and enthusiasm to multiple LGBTQ organizations/LGBTQ aligned politicians throughout the midwest. As the current vice chair of the board of trustees for Chicago House and Social Service Agency, Ryan champions the mission of the organization to eradicate homelessness, poverty and marginalization of individuals impacted by HIV/ AIDS.
Ryan works as a senior strategist for financial service clients at Imagination Publishing in Chicago.
Born in southwest Michigan, Ryan obtained a bachelor's degree in economics and Spanish from Michigan State University. While in Michigan, Ryan served as a board member of the OutCenter of southwest Michigan and chaired its largest fundraiser to date-The "OutOuting"-ensuring the center's financial viability for several years to come.
Ryan previously served on the board of directors of Howard Brown Health and remains active in myriad political campaigns throughout the city.
Did you know? Ryan's not-so-secret guilty pleasure is Summer Heights High. He has seen every episode at least 15 times.
ISAAC GOMEZ
Isaac, 27, is a Chicago-based playwright from El Paso, Texas/ Ciudad Juarez, Mexico.
His play La Ruta will receive its world premiere at Steppenwolf Theater Company this fall. Other produced works include The Way She Spoke (Greenhouse Theatre Center, and others), Ofrenda (Albany Park Theater Project), The Soul of the World (Actors Theatre of Louisville) and The Displaced (Haven Theatre.) Current commissions include South Coast Repertory, Goodman Theatre, The Theatre School at DePaul University,Steep Theatre, and StepUp Chicago Playwrights. His plays have been developed at Steppenwolf, Primary Stages, Oregon Shakespeare Festival, Goodman Theatre, Victory Gardens, Northlight, and others.
He is a member of the Goodman Theatre's Playwrights Unit, resident playwright at Chicago Dramatists and an artistic associate with Victory Gardens. He is represented by The Gersh Agency & Circle of Confusion.
Did you know? Isaac had lunch with Snooki (from The Jersey Shore) in Florence, Italy? Yeah. It was crazy.
ESTEPHANY GUZMAN
A stand-up comedian and writer in Chicago, Estephany, 28, puts together showcases and open mics for performers and audiences alike to share space and empower each others' vision. They also write and create zines for Marimacha Monarca Press, a creative collective of queer and trans people of color who publish zines and who hold a monthly film series centering around queer folks of color.
Currently, in collaboration with the non-profit Cultura in Pilsen, they produce "FUSE Open Mic & Show," a mixed-arts open mic and show in Pilsen that features POC, women and non-gender conforming performers in Chicago. They are also the co-producer of Jaden Smith Open Mic at La Parada Cafe in Pilsen and "Orange Sosa" in Back of the Yards. Estephany intentionally produces suggested donation-based events in the South Side as an incentive to create accessible entertainment and performance space for POC women and LGBTQ folks. In addition, they are the co-producer of Mi Gente Showcase for the Chicago Public Library YouMedia programming.
They have been featured in BAPS: A Comedy Variety Showcase., Las Locas Comedy, The Corner Series.
Did you know? Estephany tells people she's an Olympic swimmer-but can barely do a lap.
DANIEL R. HERNANDEZ
Daniel, 28, is an owner and founder of The Attorneys at Walczak Hernandez, P.C. Upon graduating law school in 2016, Daniel set out on a mission to become a social entrepreneur. He and his law-firm partner, TJ Walczak, deliberately decided to create a cost-friendly flat-fee law firm.
Daniel practices in the areas of family law, real estate and LGBT rights. Daniel serves as the LGBT Committee Chair for the Hispanic Lawyers Association of Illinois, is the vice-chair of the Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity Committee of the Young Lawyers Division at the American Bar Association, and is the Hispanic National Bar Association's communications chair for the LGBT Division. He also serves on the board of directors at Between Friends, a nonprofit organization that provides free educational and social services to victims of domestic violence.
Daniel previously worked for the civil rights firm of Loevy & Loevy, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, American Bar Association and the Hon. Pamela Meyerson. During his spare time, Daniel also volunteers for Gigi's Playhouse Chicago, an organization that provides free services to children with Down Syndrome.
Did you know? Daniel enjoys spending time with family, kickboxing and participating in Stonewall Chicago's kickball league.
AUGUST"GUS" HUPP
August Hupp, 20, is an intersex+nonbinary trans person creating a safer, equitable and radically compassionate world through their work with young people.
On any given week, you might find Gus providing childcare through the Illinois Caucus for Adolescent Health, or for families with LGBTQ children. They might be facilitating a panel of transgender students for an educational institute day, or presenting one of the workshops they co-created, Beyond The Binary. Gus might be working to support an event for Youth Outlook, Youth Services of Glenview/Northbrook, the Illinois Safe Schools Alliance, or various PFLAG chapters. They might be planning activities for LGBTQ campers at ISSA's Action Camp. They might be supporting a queer student of color through a meeting with an ombudsperson, or speaking at a school board meeting in support of a trans high schooler, or helping edit and revise a student's Title IX complaint.
Or they might just be trying to actively dismantle the system of adultism and the massive power imbalances between adults and young humans by talking with a 6 year old at Target about glitter.
Did you know? August was the 2017 recipient of Youth Outlook's "Michael Fairbank's Youth Leadership Award," and is an alumnus of 360 Youth Service's LGBTQ Transitional Housing Program. They received a mountain of love and support while being a homeless queer youth-which is why they spend 90 percent of their time working to provide that same love and care for youth who need it now.
VAN HUYNH
Vân (she/her), 29, is a Vietnamese American and an immigration attorney whose legal and advocacy work strives to build movements with organizers, in order to effectively address root causes of criminalization.
She has been involved with Asian Americans Advancing Justice - Chicago, PASO - West Suburban Action Project, Dope AAPI, the Resist, Reimagine, Rebuild (R3) Coalition, working to build relationships among Asian-American and immigrant communities with Black-led organizing.
Did you know? After her first year of law school, Vân interned with the Third Circuit Court of Appeals in Philadelphia-which apparently no one knows what a big deal that is.
PETER JOHNSON
Peter-a 2013 Brown University graduate who is 27 and originally from Hockessin, Delaware-is a development officer at Center on Halsted, Chicagoland's LGBTQ community center. Prior to his appointment this appointment, he served as the Center's director of communications and public relations, having worked for the organization for approximately five years.
In his role as director of communications and public relations, he represented Center on Halsted through multiple milestones and historically significant events, including the opening of Town Hall Apartments, passage of marriage equality, the 2016 Pulse massacre and the organization's expansion to the south side through its Youth Housing Initiative. Since January 2017, he has leveraged his community and coalition building skills to bolster Center on Halsted's corporate portfolio, fostering workplace diversity and inclusion as well as strengthening corporate engagement and support of the programs, services and mission of Center on Halsted. Outside of work, he has had an active role in Chicago's cultural scene.
Did you know? Peter concentrated in Egyptology and Assyriology at Brown. Upon graduation, he received a fellowship from the Archaeological Institute of America to work in Erbil, Iraq.
DANIEL KYRI
Daniel is a Jeff Award-nominated actor, filmmaker, and writer. He is featured on this season of Chicago Med and in Stephen Cone's award-winning film Henry Gamble's Birthday Party, now streaming on Netflix.
He has starred in productions at Lookingglass Theatre (Moby Dick), Steppenwolf Theatre Company (Monster), Chicago Shakespeare Theatre (Tug of War pt. I & II) and Goodman Theatre (Objects in the Mirror), and was most recently seen in Robert O'Hara's production of Macbeth at The Denver Center for the Performing Arts. He is represented by Stewart Talent and is currently working on his writing/directing/producing debut, the T, for which he was named Chicago's 2018 Filmmakers-in- Residence and is starring as the titular character in The Gift Theatre's summer production of Hamlet.
Did you know? One of the first novels he read was one he wrote himself as a child.
GRANT LADNIAK
Grant, 30, is a Chicago native who has a bachelor's degrees in psychology, gender and social justice, as well as a master's in organization development.
He is passionate about issues of social justice, racial inequality and, especially, homeless youth initiatives. Someone who loves to volunteer, Grant is a former volunteer director at Center on Halsted. He is currently an associate board member of AIDS Foundation Chicago and Leadership Council member of Out & Equal Chicagoland.
A self-described "huge nerd trapped in a jock's body," Grant reading, travel and movies, and is a huge Marvel fan (Black Panther and Thor all the way!). He also indulges in biking, swimming hiking, playing sports, weight training and cooking (having a very special relationship with food). He also has certifications in automotive performance machining and engineering, and loves rebuilding and performance modifying engines
Did you know? Grant has an affinity for plants and gardening, and has hundreds of bizarre, edible and unique plants that he's very attached to.
GNAT ROSA MADRID
Gnat, 27, is an artist, designer, and party producer working in Chicago. Her brand, GNAT, provides the babes of the world with glittering femme-centric fetish and bondage gear. Made for queer femmes by a queer femme, GNAT gear will decorate your gorgeous, bodacious body so that you can harness your sexuality. GNAT gear promotes safe, exciting, and consensual sex, BDSM, body positivity, gender fluidity, trans liberation, and femme4femme love.
Madrid is also the assistant producer for DURO: Chicago's Queer Latinx twice-monthly dance party. DURO strives to uplift all people of color and gender minorities, showcases the talent of artists across the city, and provides free HIV testing.You can also find her installation art at Femme's Room. In March, she showed her new fashion collection at the Chicago History Museum sponsored by OUT at CHM.
Did you know? Gnat is also a Point Scholar alumnus and member of the CFDA: Council of Fashion Designers of America.
JAZMIN MARTINEZ
Jazmin is a 28-yea-old, queer, gender non-conforming immigrant living in La Villita, Chicago, who comes from a lineage of Mexican campesinos. They are currently working on establishing a worker cooperative called Catatumbo Cooperative Farm. Their background includes organizing with Organized Communities Against Deportations (OCAD), working with survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault, providing support to folks living with HIV and working with previously incarcerated folks.
They have participated in multiple direct actions throughout the years to fight against the deportations and criminalization of communities of color and immigrant communities throughout Chicago. They are rooted in community work and healing, centering collective work to envision a world without borders and police. All together, their current and past work in organizing, working with communities who are systematically marginalized created a commitment to envision and create other possible worlds.
Did you know? Jazmin is a Capricorn sun, Libra rising and Scorpio moon-and likes to bootyshake while farming.
BEYZA OZER
beyza, 23, is a queer/trans Muslim writer living in Chicago. beyza's work has appeared in and is forthcoming from The Offing, Pinwheel, Vinyl, Nightblock, Witchcraft Magazine, Shabby Doll House, & the anthology Subject to Change: Trans Poetry & Conversation (Sibling Rivalry Press 2017). beyza is the author of Fail Better (fog machine 2017) & I DON'T MEAN TO REDSHIFT (Maudlin House 2016). They are deputy director of social media at YesYes Books, and work at The Poetry Foundation.
Did you know? Beyza got the highest score in their college astronomy class and won a Marie Curie bobblehead doll that glows in the dark.
DEIVID STEVEN ROJAS JIMENEZ PACHECO
David, 29, was born in Colombia and raised in Miami; he has called Chicago home for the last five-years.
Deivid has worked for the Fight For 15 campaign in different positions, including organizer, communicator and digital wizard. As the communications director for the Fight For 15 in Chicago, he has worked with renowned local and national outlets to place countless stories that highlight the struggles of low-wage workers and the LGBTQ community. For example, he worked with INTO magazine to place a story by a McDonald's workers titled "Trans Rights = Workers Rights." He's produced various digital viral content and helped organize many protests, press conferences, actions, and rallies to mobilize workers.
As a poet and filmmaker, Deivid explores the intersections of queerness with immigration, globalization, politics, mental health, masculinity and love. His poems have been shared by Gozamos and The Gran Varones, and he's performed in venues across the city. He was also a production assistant for Signature Move, an award-winning LGBTQ and Chicago-based film.
Deivid is also part of the organizing committee of Vives Q, which was recently recognized by ALMA with the Community Service Award for "elevating the Latinx and LGBTQ community."
Did you know? Deivid is a momma to more than 50+ plants. He's also so proud to be from Miami, that you can still catch him dialing you with that 305 area code.
NIKK SELIK
Nikk, 29, is a transgender man and activist for the trans community. He serves as the group leader for T-MAC: Transmasculine Alliance Chicago, a community support group for transmasculine adults at the Center on Halsted. For the past eight years, Nikk has spoken publicly to educate people on trans identity at a variety of schools, organizations and conferences. Nikk also mentors trans youth and works with parents to help them be supportive.
Did you know? Nikk has been reading tarot cards for more than a decade.
DENISE YVETTE SERNA
Denise, 29, is a theater practitioner and arts activist whose credits include HIR (Steppenwolf Theatre Company), Earthquakes in London (Steep Theatre Company), The View Upstairs (Circle Theatre Chicago), For the Love of... (Pride Films & Plays), La Chingada, (the)forget_me\knot (inappropriate theatre company) and Climate Change Theatre Action - Chicago. She is co-founder of Global Hive Laboratories, a collective of international practitioners working toward a global theatre. She co-curates HOMESET, a quarterly artist salon.
Did you know? Denise collects editions of Le Petit Prince from countries she visits. Her collection includes copies of the book in Finnish, Icelandic, Russian and Greek.
DANIELLA SILVA
Danielle, 28, is the development & events specialist at the AIDS Foundation of Chicago(AFC). Dani plays an integral role in advancing AFC's brand, managing relationships as well as cultivating new donors and partners. Her work producing events includes AIDS Run & Walk Chicago, the largest HIV event in the Midwest that raises awareness and critical funds for more than 30 organizations in Chicago. Also, Dani serves as staff liaison to the AFC Associate Board, a group of young professionals and emerging leaders who are passionate advocates for HIV and LGBTQ services.
Originally from Miami, Dani graduated from Loyola University with an MA in global politics, specializing in the Western Hemisphere and human rights. In addition to her work with AFC, Dani is active with Mujeres Latinas en Accion, a Pilsen-based organization that provides support to survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault, as well as immigration aide in the Latinx community.
Did you know? Dani has volunteered extensively in Latin America, including sanitation projects in Honduras, Nicaragua, Republica Dominicana and Colombia.
IRIS SOWLAT
Iris, 24, is a theater director and producer who uses theater to create welcoming spaces, spark conversations about social issues, and to "make the invisible, visible."
Iris is a company member at Pride Films & Plays, where she recently directed The Days Are Shorter, and produced (directing portions of) History Lezons, After Orlando (with NoPassport), SheFest, and two WeFests. Other directing credits include Joan of Arc (RhinoFest at Prop Theatre), Narratives of Achromatopsia (Chicago Fringe), Jane by Paula Kamen (Chicago Women's History Center & Pride Arts Center) and work with Stage Left, Collaboraction, Chicago Theatre Marathon and Global Hive Labs, among many others.
Did you know? Iris is legally blind. She has a visual impairment called achromatopsia. And last year, she created a documentary theatre piece based on her own experiences and interviews with others who had this impairment.
SUNG YIM
Yim, 28, is a writer and interdisciplinary artist from Korea who was a finalist for the 2018 Lambda Literary Award in transgender nonfiction. They are the author of What About the Rest of Your Life (Perfect Day Publishing) and Flowers Are for Pussies (Ghost City Press). Their work has appeared in Rattle, Kweli Journal, Contrary, The James Franco Review, The Wanderer, and Crab Fat Magazine.
Did you know? Sung can knit with their eyes closed.
Joanna Thompson
Dr. Joanna Thompson, 30, has been committed to the Chicagoland LGBTQ community since moving here in 2010.
As an academic, Joanna worked on A Trans· and Queer Student Guide to the University of Illinois at Chicago in 2014. Joanna recently defended her Ph.D., facilitating lectures from Toronto to Berlin, Germany. As an activist, Joanna has been a member of the Chicago Hate Crimes Coalition since 2011. In her current position as the community outreach and engagement coordinator for the AntiViolence Project at Center on Halsted, she filmed a TEDx on what it means to be a half Black/half Latina and queer female.
Did you know? Joanna recently studied criminology, law and justice at the University of Illinois at Chicago.
Regina Victor
Regina is a 25-year-old producer, dramaturg, director, writer, performer and critic. Hailing from Oakland, California, Victor is a member of the Victory Gardens Directors Inclusion Initiative 17/18, the SDCF Observership 17/18 Class, and recently finished serving as the Steppenwolf Artistic Apprentice and Multicultural Fellow. They are the co-founder of online theater journal Rescripted (www.rescripted.org), and are a freelance critic for Windy City Times. Recent credits include BLKS at Steppenwolf Theatre, The LIght at The New Colony, and To Catch a Fish at Timeline Theatre.
Did you know? Regina Victor speaks French.
Mia Vivens
Mia, 27, is a queer poetess/ mover/ maker originally hailing from Columbus, Ohio. She is an alumna of Valparaiso University, having studied theater and dance. She is specifically interested in exploring the intersections of the queer community amongst Black and brown folks. She works for About Face Theatre as the associate director of outreach and engagement, and she tours a show about gender and sexuality to local Chicagoland middle and high schools. She has also worked with many theaters in Chicago as both an actor and a director.
Did you know? You can see her the The Fly Honey Show this summer! :)
Aaron-Raheim White
Aaron-Raheim-who is 29 and describes their preferred pronoun as "anything in love"-is a Chicago native who earned their Masters of Fine Arts degree from New York University's Tisch School of the Arts and his Bachelors of Fine Arts from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, both in dance performance and choreography.
Raheim is a Reiki master teacher, sound healer, and crystal healing adornment designer as well as the director of community programming at Lax Energy Worx, all while performing as an ensemble member with Lucky Plush Productions. Their mission is to aid individuals in their return to wholeness by providing tools and services that promote balance, personal development, self-sufficiency, positivity and growth. Aaron-Raheim desires to be a beacon of light, inspire freedom and facilitate healing through Reiki, dance, meditatio, and education.
Did you know? Aaron-Raheim is the eldest of 13.
Derrick Woods-Morrow
Derrick (age 28, and from Brown Summit, North Carolina) is a multidisciplinary Chicago-based artist working in photography, sculpture, installation and performance.
His practice navigates and negotiates sexual identity by fragmenting notions of representation, exploring personhood, memories & reimagining ways to understand power dynamics as they pertain to consent and self preservation. He is an alum of the Fire Island Artist Residency 2016, Terry Plumming Scholar & Acre Residency Alum 15' and Latitude Chicago Artist in Residence 2017, and is currently a Chicago Artists coalition 2017-2018 bolt resident. he is also an Adjunct Assistant Professor of Photography and Teaching Artist at the University of Illinois Chicago.
Did you know? Derrick once tripped, fell and lost two teeth while hanging out with the Jersey Shore cast in Florence, Italy? He never saw them again-and he was thankful. Also, Derrick loves sniffing poppers while eating gelato.
Honorable Mention
Erin Bailey
Erin just turned 18 this year. She enjoys being out in nature, creating art and advocating for others. On multiple occasions, she has protested for better gun control laws and for women's rights at the Indiana state House. She from a smalltown called Columbus, Indiana-which also happens to be Vice President Mike Pence's hometown.
Did you know? Erin made national news by organizing the first-ever Pride festival in Vice President Mike Pence's hometown. It was a huge success, and more than 2,000 people attended. It helped send a message to our community that everyone is welcome!
Nova Maday
Nova, 18, graduated from Palatine High School in May 2018. An artist and photographer, Nova will attend the Milwaukee Institute of Art and Design following a deferred enrollment.
In November 2017, Nova filed a lawsuit against District 211 schools after her school denied full use of the locker room to dress for gym classes, simply because she is transgender. Nova spoke out publicly in announcing the lawsuit, sharing her story with media outlets and others-giving voice to all students who are transgender who simply want to be recognized and respected.
Did you know? This past March, three "friends of the court" briefs were filed to bolster Nova's case-one from 12 groups that work to advance civil and human rights in Illinois, one from eight national and statewide medical organizations, and one by the Illinois Safe Schools Alliance.

Subject: Teaching; Human immunodeficiency virus--HIV; Womens health; Schools; Minority & ethnic groups; Gender; Transgender persons; Design; Reiki; Acquired immune deficiency syndrome--AIDS; Firearm laws & regulations; Sex crimes; Education

Location: Indiana; Chicago Illinois; Illinois; United States--US

People: Pence, Mike

Company / organization: Name: Illinois Safe Schools Alliance; NAICS: 813319; Name: University of Chicago; NAICS: 611310; Name: University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign; NAICS: 611310

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: 19TH ANNUAL 30 UNDER THIRTY HONORS

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 33

Issue: 40

Pages: 55-60

Publication year: 2018

Publication date: Jun 20, 2018

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 2063752660

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/19th-annual-30-under-thirty-honors/docview/2063752660/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jun 20, 2018

Last updated: 2023-11-07

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Getting to know American Beauty Show's Paul Dykstra

Author: Maxwell, Carrie

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/getting-know-american-beauty-shows-paul-dykstra/docview/2036983213/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=31&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=21&amp;date=2018-04-18&amp;atitle=Getting+to+know+American+Beauty+Show%27s+Paul+Dykstra&amp;au=Maxwell%2C+Carrie&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=31&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=21&amp;date=2018-04-18&amp;atitle=Getting+to+know+American+Beauty+Show%27s+Paul+Dykstra&amp;au=Maxwell%2C+Carrie&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Later this month, Cosmetologists Chicago will kick off its annual America's Beauty Show for salon professionals. The first, as it was called at the time, Midwest Beauty Trade Show took place in 1924 and now the show has 450 exhibitors, 70,000-plus professional gate admissions, more than 60 classes for continuing education hours and more than 80 classes for product knowledge education.
Led by CEO Paul Dykstra (who is also a classical pianist), Cosmetologist Chicago consists of the beauty show and subsidiaries-The International Nail Technicians Association, The American Association for Esthetics, CIDESCO USA and the Certified Nail Professional program.
"Cosmetologists Chicago is a unique organization of salon professionals here in Chicagoland," said Dykstra. "Founded in 1912 by a group of salon owners as the Chicago and Illinois Hairdressers and Wigmakers Association, it today boasts more than 15,000 professional and student members."
Dykstra came to the organization because, as he said, he could type fast because all pianist have coordinated fingers.
"I applied for a job at the time that computer word processing and data processing were becoming the norm," said Dykstra. "I had studied word processing so I had another marketable skill and the rest is history. I interviewed in Nov. 1986, and have been here ever since."
As for this year's beauty show, Dykstra explained that attendees will find a new exhibit hall; more education opportunities; four demonstration theaters on the main floor; fashion from the runways of London brought to the United States by the company label.m; The Beauty Changes Lives gala (to raise funds for cosmetology school training in all disciplines); two competitions: The Andis Fabulous Fades and the Major League Barber Crazy Hands Barber; and even domestic violence and sexual abuse awareness training (required for all salon professionals for 2018 licensure renewal); among other new additions to the weekend's events.
While Dykstra's journey toward Cosmetologist Chicago was due to the practical skill set he had, his love and passion for the piano and classical music was formed at an early age. Dykstra was raised in a small agricultural community in southeastern South Dakota, where much of his family were independent farmers.
"While there was little cultural exposure, we were fortunate that our school district had music teachers who inspired us with the beauty of music," said Dykstra. "Three exceptional teachers were Larry Lyngstad, instrumental; Ethel Cooper, vocal and Ruth Van Gerpen, piano. At the time I was in high school, another friend and I were accepted to study in Yankton College Conservatory of Music's preparatory program. Our mothers switched weeks and drove us 80 miles for lessons until we could drive ourselves.
"I did not start playing the piano until sixth grade and took to it like I had played my whole life. I had found my 'personal football field.' When I was accepted into the preparatory program, and then later majored in piano performance in undergraduate and graduate school, I knew I had found my cultural and artistic self. Further study at the American Institute of Musical Studies in Austria, confirmed my focus as a pianist on collaborative piano-as a chamber and vocal music specialist."
In addition to his role within Cosmetologists Chicago, Dykstra is also the Symphony Orchestra of Chicago's Lira Ensemble (America's only full-time professional performance organizations dedicated to the music of Poland) founder and former conductor. Dykstra's many roles at the Lira Ensemble over the years include conducting the professional female ensemble, developing the full symphonic orchestra and various administrative tasks. These days he focuses exclusively on collaborative piano in the ensemble.
The Lira Ensemble has performed the orchestral and operatic music of Polish composers including Chopin, Moniuszko, Paderewski, Bacewicz, Szymanowski, Ptaszynska and more at Chicago's Symphony Center, Hershey Auditorium in Pittsburgh, the Ford Center for the Performing Arts in suburban Detroit, at SUNY-Buffalo and many other major venues throughout the United States.
In addition to his work with the Lira Ensemble, Dykstra has performed throughout the United States, Canada, Poland, Germany, Austria and West Africa.
Dykstra was also the musical director at Temple Sholom of Chicago for 25 years.
"I was hired when I first moved to Chicago to conduct the professional choir for the High Holy Days of the Jewish calendar and quickly became a member," said Dykstra. "One of the nation's largest Reform congregations, the temple has a stellar reputation for outstanding musical performances. It is one of the most cherished musical experiences of my lifetime."
When Dykstra is not working, he can be found spending time with husband Bob Beach (whom he met in January 2000 and married October 2016) attending Broadway in Chicago plays and musicals, traveling to various beaches and across Europe, going on cruises with their friends, cooking and growing herbs in their aerogarden.
"For any salon professionals out there who have not heard of this show, I encourage them to attend," said Dykstra. "We truly bring the world of beauty to our back door every year. Why would any pro skip it."
The show will take place April 28-30 at McCormick Place, and is for salon professionals only. See https://www.americasbeautyshow. com/ for more information. To register for the show, visit https://abs2018-attendee.streampoint.com/.

Subject: Piano; Collaboration; Musical performances; Orchestras; Education; Professionals

Business indexing term: Subject: Professionals

Location: Pittsburgh Pennsylvania; Chicago Illinois; United States--US; Canada; West Africa; Illinois; Germany; Detroit Michigan; South Dakota; Poland; Austria; Europe

Company / organization: Name: Lira Ensemble; NAICS: 711120, 711130; Name: Broadway in Chicago; NAICS: 711310; Name: Cosmetologists Chicago; NAICS: 813920

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Getting to know American Beauty Show's Paul Dykstra

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 33

Issue: 31

Pages: 21

Publication year: 2018

Publication date: Apr 18, 2018

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 2036983213

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/getting-know-american-beauty-shows-paul-dykstra/docview/2036983213/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Apr 18, 2018

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Black women anti-rape advocates unite at UIC

Author: Baudler, Liz

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/black-women-anti-rape-advocates-unite-at-uic/docview/2036982772/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=31&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2018-04-18&amp;atitle=Black+women+anti-rape+advocates+unite+at+UIC&amp;au=Baudler%2C+Liz&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=31&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2018-04-18&amp;atitle=Black+women+anti-rape+advocates+unite+at+UIC&amp;au=Baudler%2C+Liz&amp;id=doi:

Full text: "After Rosa, Before #MeToo"-a panel of the history of Black women's anti-rape organizing efforts-was a chance for four powerful women to commiserate on a subject they knew intimately. Organized by Keisa Reynolds of the University of Illinois at Chicago's (UIC's) Women's Leadership and Resource Center as part of its "Take Back the Fight" programming, Reynolds was inspired by reading a piece about how #metoo was not benefitting Black women, and realizing the author seemed unfamiliar with Black women's crucial efforts in the fight against sexual violence.
Mary Scott-Boria-a former member of the Black Panther party and, later, a women's health organizer-remembered not feeling like she had a language to talk about the rape she'd experienced when she was 20. "I did it because I was a community organizer," Scott-Boria said of her early anti-rape work. "I didn't even think of myself as a survivor."
Scott remembered "stumbling" into anti-rape organizing, a feeling the entire panel concurred with. Two of the women, Vickie Sides and Rachel Caidor, did not even feel like organizers, though Caidor said in college her dorm room was the unofficial rape-crisis center. "When I graduated high school, I didn't even know rape crisis counselor was a job you could get," she said.
Activist Mariame Kaba remembered calling a sexual-violence hotline she found in the phone book, and asking to be connected to other teen survivors. "You are in crisis and you need to figure out what is wrong with you," she remembered being told. "We have no place for you." Both she and Scott-Boria had spent formative years inside Black Nationalist movements that were highly sexist: Kaba's consciousness was raised in college by Angela Davis' Violence Against Women and the Ongoing Challenge to Racism.
All of the women had to confront both misconceptions about the work they started to do and internal struggles within their various communities. While the other panelists recalled forming a community around the YWCA, Kaba remembered feeling isolated from other women of color in her non-profit work, and increasingly uneasy about the role the state played in her work. The cops were never the first thing survivors asked for, she said, often because they didn't want their partners incarcerated. Had she continued in a nonprofit space, Kaba said, she would have eventually stopped doing the work.
Through her work with social service agencies, Caidor began to see the way conversations about domestic violence and rape were siloed, and among women of color, survivor identity was still developing. Working as a counselor in Logan Square, she found she "had to unlearn what they were taught," as clients treated her space more as a community center rather than for counseling. Caidor found that communities were already doing the healing and organizing she was supposed to provide. "Disabuse yourself of what you think people need," she advised the crowd, saying it was better for nonprofits to provide space and resources in communities of color than inserting themselves.
Scott-Boria, meanwhile, had been asked to grow the presence of rape-crisis services in Black communities, but she soon realized that to "create a consciousness around rape enhanced the criminalization of Black men." Furthermore, she found her task literally impossible because of the belief that funding should be spread equally throughout the state. And the conversation about rape was historically understood to be private in Black communities, although the panel agreed that approaches to that conversation are changing. Scott-Boria's granddaughter has followed in her footsteps as an anti-rape organizer, unaware that her grandmother once did the same work, and her 13-year-old grandson recently asked her to explain rape. "Boy, you asked the wrong person," Scott-Boria joked as the room exploded with laughter.
Kaba delineated the history of rape conversations in the Black community. While Black men were often accused of raping white women, which led to powerful anti-lynching activism, and Black women were often victimized by white men, the conversation about intracommunity sexual violence "didn't exist," Kaba said.
Sides recalled observing her partner in a 40hour training in which part of the agenda involved disclosing survivorhood. Initially Sides recalled wondering why the participants, all Black women, were using the training as "a therapy session." Her partner reminded Sides, no stranger to working in these worlds already, that this was an opportunity and space which Black women were rarely afforded. "Why didn't I see the beauty of what was happening there?" Sides asked, and went on to say the space probably was so effective because it was all Black and no one was offering justice, instead just the space itself.
Audience questions saw the women discussing R&B singer R. Kelly, soon to make an appearance at UlC's campus. While saying of Kelly, "that child molestor makes really good songs," Caidor critiqued Jim DeRogatis' journalism about Kelly, saying it seemed "self-interested," and recalling that on his radio show DeRogatis had once discussed Ike Turner's career without mentioning his spousal abuse."Where were you for Tina Turner?" Caidor asked rhetorically. Kaba agreed, calling the DeRogatis's pursuit of Kelly "Ahabization," and wondering on a broader level how perpetrators can repair harm.
"If there's no way back, a lot of people are going to deny they're rapists," Kaba pointed out. She continued this point in response to a question about how to restore perpetrators to communities. "We don't have a culture that encourages people to take responsibility," she said, and pointed out that we should still reward people for being accountable. Fear of punishment, Kaba continued, leads to collusion, where communities hide their wrongdoers and nothing get solved. "Communities are not going to agree to throw their people to the state," Kaba said.
Sides pointed out that artists and storytellers like R.C Riley and E. Nina Jay, who talk about their histories of sexual violence in their work, are finding ways to engage without organizing. Sides, who currently works at U of C, saw hope in a student she worked with who wanted to draft a curriculum to educate her rapist rather than go through a disciplinary process.
"People are starting to think beyond criminal justice," Sides said.
"Take Back The Fight: Resisting Sexual Violence From the Ground Up" runs through May 15 at UIC's Pop Up Just Art Gallery, 1344 S. Halsted St.

Subject: Art galleries & museums; Womens health; Domestic violence; Consciousness; Rape

People: Turner, Ike; Kelly, R; Turner, Tina

Company / organization: Name: University of Illinois at Chicago; NAICS: 611310

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Black women anti-rape advocates unite at UIC

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 33

Issue: 31

Pages: 6

Publication year: 2018

Publication date: Apr 18, 2018

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2036982772

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/black-women-anti-rape-advocates-unite-at-uic/docview/2036982772/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Apr 18, 2018

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Advocate recounts challenges facing women with HIV

Author: Simonette, Matt

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/advocate-recounts-challenges-facing-women-with/docview/2036983590/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=30&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2018-04-11&amp;atitle=Advocate+recounts+challenges+facing+women+with+HIV&amp;au=Simonette%2C+Matt&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=30&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2018-04-11&amp;atitle=Advocate+recounts+challenges+facing+women+with+HIV&amp;au=Simonette%2C+Matt&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Even as technology to prevent and treat HIV infections improves, obstacles continue to impede efforts by providers and advocates to assist women living with HIV.
One such organization committed to facing those obstacles however, is Oakland, Californiabased Positive Women Network-USA (PWN-USA). Founded in 2008 by 28 women living with HIV, it now has staff in several American cities and is led by Exectutive Director Naina Khanna.
Khanna recalled that a decade ago, "Nobody was advocating on our behalf. There were huge gaps to be filled. We were also very concerned about the leadership landscape not having enough women living with HIV, particularly with very few women of color and trans women with HIV. We were born to shift that dynamic."
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), about 7,529 women received an HIV diagnosis in 2016; that is about 19 percent of all new infections. Women of color were disproportionately represented among those numbers: Black women represented 61 percent of the new infections; Latinx women represented 16 percent; and other groups represented five percent. White women accounted for about 19 percent of new infections.
PWN-USA fights racial and socio-economic disparities that hinder prevention and treatment strategies. According to its website, the organization "inspires, informs, and mobilizes women living with HIV to advocate for changes that improve our lives and uphold our rights. In addition to federal advocacy, PWN-USA supports regional chapters to build leadership at a local and state level."
"We build leadership in the communities most impacted by the epidemic," Khanna explained. "We advocate using a human rights and social justice framework for policies that are grounded in human rights and dignity."
Racism, poverty and lack of access to equitable healthcare are three key barriers the organization works on, she added, noting those challenges also intersect with HIV stigma.
"In the current political climate, we're sort of seeing a resurgence of sexual- and reproductivestigma, in the form of reduction of available services and the [attempts to] control what people do and not do with their bodies," she said. "This trend in political actions, policy decisions and funding mechanisms is targeting communities that are already the most marginalized for various reasons. That's a big part of what people living with HIV contend with today-[from challenges to] our reproductive futures to transgender folks being discriminated against in healthcare settings, not being able to have their types of medical care covered by insurance companies."
Khanna said the socio-political challenges have been ever-present, but the previous presidential administration had been making significant efforts to combat HIV-related issues.
"That presented a great opportunity that many cities and states started to pick up in the form of epidemic plans, and things like that," she recalled. "With the [current] administration, we're seeing a lot of threats to HIV-funding and -services and a lack of commitment. After more than a year, we don't have a director of the National Office of AIDS Policy or leadership in the administration on the domestic epidemic."
A key goal for advocates, according to Khanna, should be advancing models of trauma-informed care. "We know that 30 percent of women living with HIV, according to one study, are living with current post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). We know that women living with HIV have high-rates of living with intimate partner violence and other forms of violence-and that's not even talking about structural violence that most women living with HIV are dealing with, in the form of systemic discrimination, poverty, racism and stigma."
Trauma-informed healthcare services delivery would increase engagement and retention in healthcare, so that medical care would be "a place of healing, and not just treatment," Khanna added. "We have the medications today for people to live long, healthy lives, but we can't get them to everyone. Part of that is the structural barriers like co-pays, distance to pharmacies, how hard it is to fill a prescription. But a lot of it is also about mental and emotional health and whether people have stability on their lives."
For more information, see pwn-usa.org. Khanna created a video discussing her work and experiences as part of amFAR's EPIC VOICES series to raise awareness about HIV-related issues. The video can be viewed at curecountdown.org/ epicvoices/.

Subject: Infections; Humanitarian aid; Domestic violence; Trauma; Human rights; Health care; Advocacy; Post traumatic stress disorder; Human immunodeficiency virus--HIV

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Centers for Disease Control & Prevention--CDC; NAICS: 923120

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Advocate recounts challenges facing women with HIV

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 33

Issue: 30

Pages: 11

Publication year: 2018

Publication date: Apr 11, 2018

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2036983590

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/advocate-recounts-challenges-facing-women-with/docview/2036983590/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Apr 11, 2018

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Record number of LGBTs running in March Illinois primary election

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/record-number-lgbts-running-march-illinois/docview/2017970735/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Daniel Foster Race: Cook County Board of Commissioners (13th District) Website: https://commissionerfoster.com The skinny: A current resident of Skokie, Foster was raised in Evanston and Wilmette, and obtained his BS in mathematics and computer science from the University of Illinois at Chicago. Prior to the bench, Roberts was a hearing officer for the Cook County Circuit Court and assistant corporation counsel for the Chicago Law Department. - Underhill has been a member of the Chicago Bar Association Judicial Evaluation Committee and is a former president of the Northern Illinois University Alumni Council. -

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=26&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=18&amp;date=2018-03-14&amp;atitle=Record+number+of+LGBTs+running+in+March+Illinois+primary+election&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=26&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=18&amp;date=2018-03-14&amp;atitle=Record+number+of+LGBTs+running+in+March+Illinois+primary+election&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: This year's elections feature a record number of openly LGBT candidates thorughout Illinois. The following individuals have publicly stated that they are members of the LGBT community and were on the ballot as of late February.
-Gaylon Alcaraz
Race: Cook County Board of Commissioners (4th District)
Website: Gaylon2018.com
The skinny: Alcaraz, who was inducted into the Chicago Gay and Lesbian Hall of Fame (now the Chicago LGBT Hall of Fame) in 2013, is a lifelong Chicagoan who has made significant impacts in local progressive politics. She was a founding member of Affinity Community Services in 1997, and was executive director of Chicago Abortion Fund from 2005-2014, among her many accomplishments.
-Kelly Cassidy
Race: Illinois state representative (14th District)
Website: http://citizensforcassidy.com
The skinny: Cassidy, who recently wed activist Candice Gingrich, has served her district since 2011. Seeking to get re-elected, Cassidy (the only openly lesbian member of the General Assembly) will clash with Arthur Noah Siegel in the primary.
-Rev. Marcus Fogliano
Race: Peoria County Precinct Committeeman
Website: None
Only in their mid-20s, activist Fogliano (who is president/CEO at Peoria Proud as well as part of the board of trustees at Interfaith alliance of Central Illinois) stands to truly make history, as being elected would make them the first trans/ genderqueer person elected to any office in Illinois.
-Mike Forti
Race: 8th Subcircuit, Cook County judge (Liu Vacancy)
Website: JudgeForti.com
The skinny: In September 2016, Judge Michael A. Forti was appointed by the Illinois Supreme Court to the Circuit Court of Cook County. He has backing from political heavyweights such as U.S Reps. Jan Schakowsky and Mike Quigley as well as Illinois Senate President John Cullerton.
-Daniel Foster
Race: Cook County Board of Commissioners (13th District)
Website: https://commissionerfoster.com
The skinny: A current resident of Skokie, Foster was raised in Evanston and Wilmette, and obtained his BS in mathematics and computer science from the University of Illinois at Chicago. He and Gaylon Alcaraz are vying to be the first members of the LGBT community to be Cook County commissioners.
-Marcelino Garcia
Race: Metropolitan Water Reclamation Commissioner
Website: MarcelinoGarcia.com
The skinny: Garcia, an attorney, is director of community affairs for the Cook County health and hospitals system-the nation's third largest public health system. He is also a Partner with Overseas Strategies, LLC, an international business development consulting firm that helps small and medium-sized companies with the logistics of import and export and market development.
-Greg Harris
Race: Illinois state representative (13th District)
Website: GregHarris.org
The skinny: Harris-who was chief co-sponsor of SB10, the legislation that brought about marriage equality in Illinois-has a district that includes several North Side neighborhoods. Harris (who was first elected to the state House in 2006, and is the first openly gay person in Illinois to become a member of legislative leadership) is running unopposed in the March 20 primary.
-Janice Bruce Hightower
Race: Kendall County board (District 1)
Website: None listed
The skinny: Hightower, a civil-rights consultant, had previously lived and worked in New Mexico for 35 years. Hightower is running as a write-in for the Kendall County board.
-Cecilia Horan
Race: Cook Circuit judge (Hartigan Vacancy)
Website: https://voteforjudgehoran.com
The skinny: The Illinois Supreme Court appointed Horan was appointed a judge in the Circuit Court of Cook County on Jan. 19, 2017. She is presently assigned to the First Municipal Division where she hears cases involving alleged breaches of contract, the rights of landlords and tenants, debtors and creditors, and traffic matters. Prior to her judicial appointment, Horan was a litigation partner at the 500-attorney law firm of Hinshaw & Culbertson LLP, where she practiced for 20 years.
-Andy Kirchoff
Race: Berwyn Township Republican Committeeman
The skinny: Kirchoff ran in 2016 for state representative in the 24th District as the Republican candidate.
-Mike McHale
Race: Circuit Court of Cook County
The skinny: McHale, who handles cases in the Criminal Division, is running for retention this year. He was inducted into the Chicago Gay and Lesbian Hall of Fame (now the Chicago LGBT Hall of Fame) in 2005.
-Stephanie Miller
Race: 6th Subcircuit, Cook County judge (Lopez Cepero Vacancy)
Website: ElectJudgeStephanieMiller.com
The skinny: Miller (a member of the Puerto Rican Bar Association and the Women's Bar Association of Illinois) has almost two decades of experience handling both criminal and civil matters. Prior to her appointment, Miller was a prosecutor with the Cook County State's Attorney's Office.
-Kevin Morrison
Race: Cook County commissioner (15th District)
Website: KevinBMorrison.com
The skinny: A Democratic resident of Elk Grove Village, Morrison-who studied environmental sciences at DePaul University-is running against incumbent Commissioner Tim Schneider. The Chicago Federation of Labor is among those endorsing Morrison.
-Jill Rose Quinn
Race: 10th Subcircuit, Cook County judge (Suriano Vacancy)
Website: VoteJillRoseQuinn.com
The skinny: Quinn's private practice experience includes working at general legal practices in Chicago, Bloomington, Lombard, Glen Ellyn and Franklin Park, where she handled a wide variety of case types. Throughout her career, she handled over 4,000 cases and performed appellate work. She is a member of the National LGBT Bar Association and Chicago LGBT Chamber of Commerce.
-Mary Colleen Roberts
Race: Circuit Court of Cook County
The skinny: Roberts is running for retention this year. She is a judge on the Cook County 11th Subcircuit in Illinois. She was elected in 2006 and was retained in 2012. Prior to the bench, Roberts was a hearing officer for the Cook County Circuit Court and assistant corporation counsel for the Chicago Law Department.
-Lamont Robinson
Race: Illinois state representative (5th District)
Website: www.votelamontrobinson.com
The skinny: Robinson-who runs two Chicago Allstate Insurance offices, in Bronzeville and Humboldt Park-is aiming to fill the Illinois House's 5th District post currently held by state Rep. Juliana Stratton, who is running for lieutenant governor alongside gubernatorial candidate J.B. Pritzker. Should he be elected, Robinson would be the first openly gay African-American state legislator in Illinois history. Interestingly, one of his primary opponents is Ken Dunkin-a neighbor of Robinson's who lost to Stratton in 2015.
-Daniel Roldán-Johnson
Race: U.S. Congress (14th District)
Website: VoteRoldan.com
The skinny: Should Roldán-Johnson win, he would be the first openly gay member of the U.S. Congress from Illinois. He attended Florida Atlantic University and DePaul University, where he met his husband, Christian. He's facing six opponents in the Democrat primary-and the winner gets Republican incumbent Randy Hultgren.
-Debra Shore
Race: Metropolitan Water Reclamation District commissioner
Website: https://www.debrashore.org/
The skinny: Shore has served on the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District board since 2006. She is a member of the Illinois Women's Institute for Leadership and served on the board (and was past chair) of the Gay and Lesbian Victory Fund. She is running for her third six-year term in the 2018 election.
-Maggie Trevor
Race: Illinois state representative (54th District)
Website: http://trevorforstaterep.net/
The skinny: Trevor, who identifies as lesbian, is the only candidate in the Democratic primary- and incumbent Tom Morrison is the sole candidate in the Republican primary. Trevor was born and raised in Rolling Meadows, where her parents were among the city's original residents.
-Brad Trowbridge
Race: Cook Circuit judge (McGinnis Vacancy)
Website: https://bradforjudge.com
The skinny: As an attorney, Trowbridge has litigated cases in domestic relations, chancery, probate, and criminal divisions. Also, he currently is an adjunct faculty member at John Marshall Law School's Domestic Violence Clinic.
-Ed Underhill
Race: 6th Subcircuit, Cook County judge (Cooke Vacancy)
Website: http://edunderhillforjudge.com/
The skinny: Underhill is a trial attorney with more than 30 years of experience, and a Bucktown homeowner for the past 17 years. Underhill has been a member of the Chicago Bar Association Judicial Evaluation Committee and is a former president of the Northern Illinois University Alumni Council.
-Sam Yingling
Race: Illinois state representative (62nd District)
Website: SamYingling.com
The skinny: Grayslake resident Yingling is running unopposed in the primary for his fourth term. He is the first openly gay House member from outside metropolitan Chicago. Yingling proposed to longtime partner Lowell Jaffe at the party former Illinois Gov. Pat Quinn threw to celebrate the passage of Illinois' marriage-equality bill in 2013. (They married in 2015.)

Subject: Primaries & caucuses; State court decisions; Gays & lesbians; Judicial appointments; Non-binary gender; Websites; Attorneys

Business indexing term: Subject: Attorneys

Location: Cook County Illinois; Chicago Illinois; Florida; New Mexico; United States--US; Illinois

People: Hultgren, Randy; Schakowsky, Jan; Quigley, Mike; Stratton, Juliana; Schneider, Tim; Quinn, Pat; Cassidy, Kelly

Company / organization: Name: Supreme Court-Illinois; NAICS: 922110; Name: University of Illinois at Chicago; NAICS: 611310; Name: Florida Atlantic University; NAICS: 611310; Name: Hinshaw & Culbertson; NAICS: 541110; Name: Northern Illinois University; NAICS: 611310; Name: Senate; NAICS: 921120; Name: DePaul University; NAICS: 611310; Name: John Marshall Law School-Chicago IL; NAICS: 611310; Name: Congress-US; NAICS: 921120

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Record number of LGBTs running in March Illinois primary election

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 33

Issue: 26

Pages: 18-19

Publication year: 2018

Publication date: Mar 14, 2018

Section: ELECTIONS 2018

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 2017970735

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/record-number-lgbts-running-march-illinois/docview/2017970735/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 14, 2018

Last updated: 2024-08-28

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Brad Trowbridge: Activist again takes aim at judicial post

Author: Davis, Andrew

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/brad-trowbridge-activist-again-takes-aim-at/docview/2015319564/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Horizons [the predecessor of Center on Halsted] rented office space from the counseling center, taking over the space at night. The person who provided services to those suffering domestic violence had just left, and my supervisor asked if I'd be interested in this. [...]that's not to say that a judge can't have a sensitivity to issues; for example, I might recognize that there's more to the story of a woman who's been battered.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=25&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2018-03-07&amp;atitle=Brad+Trowbridge%3A+Activist+again+takes+aim+at+judicial+post&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=25&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2018-03-07&amp;atitle=Brad+Trowbridge%3A+Activist+again+takes+aim+at+judicial+post&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

Full text: ELECTIONS 2018: COOK COUNTY COURT (MCGINNIS VACANCY)
Out lawyer, adjunct professor and longtime activist Brad Trowbridge is running again for a judicial seat.
As an attorney, he has has litigated cases in domestic relations, chancery, probate and criminal divisions-and has helped protect hundreds of victims of domestic violence and their children from further abuse. As an activist, Trowbridge has been co-chair of the Chicago Metropolitan Battered Women's Network and has been on the board of directors of A New Direction BeverlyMorgan Park, among other achievements.
His Democratic primary opponents are Brian T. Sexton and Peter M. Gonzalez.
Windy City Times: This is not your first rodeo. How many times have you previously run?
Brad Trowbridge: I tried to get on the ballot in 2010, and I was unable to do that. Then I ran in 2012, and lost-so this is my third time attempting it.
WCT: And the third time's the charm. [Trowbridge laughs.] So what did you learn before from running that will help you now?
BT: It's about time management. You only have a certain amount of time in a day; most of us don't have the luxury of taking huge chunks of time off. It's about where you'll get the most signatures; after you get on the ballot, it's about how you try to reach out to large groups of people. One of the mistakes I made last time is that I'd be at an event every time-and sometimes there'd just be about 20 people there, and half the people would be judicial candidates. That's just not effective. It's about going to events like AIDS Walk or the Turkey Trot, where there are large groups of people.
Manage your time and go where the crowds are.
WCT: On the flip side, what's your biggest disadvantage in the election?
BT: It's probably not having more time to devote to the campaign. I still have to work every day, and I have clients. I don't have the luxury of giving entire days to the campaign.
WCT: You're a big advocate in many respects, especially in areas like domestic violence and civil rights. Could you talk a bit more about your advocacy background?
BT: Back in the '80s, I got a master's degree in human-development counseling, which is a lot like social work. I actually moved to Chicago to take a job at a place called the Counseling Center of Lakeview, which I think is now where Ald. [Tom] Tunney's office is located. I was a social worker who worked with older adults.
Horizons [the predecessor of Center on Halsted] rented office space from the counseling center, taking over the space at night. Then, I saw that Horizons had received funding, and it advertised for a staff member and I got that job. We wore lots of hats there; officially, my title was head of HIV/AIDS services, but I also trained volunteers, led support groups, trained people in the anti-violence program and the AIDS hotline.
After a few years, I decided I wanted to do something else. I saw people get sick and die; back then, there was no effective treatment for HIV/AIDS, and it was a big deal when AZT came out. I was burned out-a gay man in his 20s working with people who were dying, and it just took its toll on me. I learned about a counseling job at Northwestern University that involved working with LGBTQ students, so I took that.
I then decided I wanted to be more of an advocate. I then went to law school, and later worked at the Legal Assistance Foundation. The person who provided services to those suffering domestic violence had just left, and my supervisor asked if I'd be interested in this. I said, "Sure, I'll try it out"-and the rest is history. To this day, I have many clients who are victims of domestic violence.
WCT: If you win this race and become a judge, would you still be an advocate? Can a judge be an advocate?
BT: No, I don't think so. As a judge, your job is to apply the law to the facts of the case. Now that's not to say that a judge can't have a sensitivity to issues; for example, I might recognize that there's more to the story of a woman who's been battered. They might be afraid to tell the entire story because of repercussions. Having encountered so many victims and seen so many different reactions, I think I'd be able to dig a little deeper and get more insight into what's happening.
Every judge's experiences shape his or her viewpoints once they're on the bench. I couldn't be an advocate, but I think I could be sensitive to issues.
WCT: So you're 100-percent sure it wouldn't affect your objectivity?
BT: That's a good question. I don't think [my objectivity would be affected], and I'll tell you why: I've had cases in which I represented men who I strongly believed were falsely accused of domestic violence. I feel very frustrated if I feel a false claim has been brought, because I feel that harms the true victims.
WCT: Why do you believe there should be more LGBT judges?
BT: I think we're underrepresented, to start with; I think there are only six openly gay male judges out of 420 or 430 in Cook County. I don't think sexual orientation is the issue-it's the perspective. That's why we need more diversity on the bench from different life experiences.
I also think the more diverse the judiciary, the more educated the judiciary will be. If judges interact with each other, they'll learn more about each other's community-and that extends to training. When you encounter someone, and like and respect that person, you're more likely to change your opinion or ask more open questions. Being an LGBT judge or candidate gives us the opportunity to educate the judiciary in a way that wouldn't otherwise be available.
WCT: What's one thing about you that our readers might find surprising?
BT: I didn't go to law school until I was 37. My previous career was completely different from law-although in ways, it's not-in terms of the work I did. But I don't know of any other judge who has a master's degree in social work. I know some who've been CPAs or have had other careers as a background.
WCT: And your previous career would help you as a judge?
BT: I can't imagine that it would hurt. As I told a friend of mine, I've learned to be a very good listener-even if they tell a slightly different version than something they've previously said. Some people might say, "Oh, he's been a counselor; that'll give him more sensitivity to people who've struggled emotionally." But I'd also say it's made me a better listener; that's what has also made me a better attorney.
See https://bradforjudge.com/.

Subject: Primaries & caucuses; Local elections; Human immunodeficiency virus--HIV; Domestic violence; Activists; Judicial elections; Counseling services; Acquired immune deficiency syndrome--AIDS; Attorneys

Business indexing term: Subject: Attorneys

Location: Cook County Illinois; Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Northwestern University; NAICS: 611310; Name: Windy City Times; NAICS: 513110

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Brad Trowbridge: Activist again takes aim at judicial post

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 33

Issue: 25

Pages: 6

Publication year: 2018

Publication date: Mar 7, 2018

Section: ELECTIONS 2018: COOK COUNTY COURT (MCGINNIS VACANCY)

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

ProQuest document ID: 2015319564

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/brad-trowbridge-activist-again-takes-aim-at/docview/2015319564/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 7, 2018

Last updated: 2024-02-01

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Record number of LGBTs running in March Illinois primary election

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/record-number-lgbts-running-march-illinois/docview/2012882207/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Daniel Foster Race: Cook County Board of Commissioners (13th District) Website: https://commissionerfoster.com The skinny: A current resident of Skokie, Foster was raised in Evanston and Wilmette, and obtained his BS in mathematics and computer science from the University of Illinois at Chicago. Prior to the bench, Roberts was a hearing officer for the Cook County Circuit Court and assistant corporation counsel for the Chicago Law Department. - Underhill has been a member of the Chicago Bar Association Judicial Evaluation Committee and is a former president of the Northern Illinois University Alumni Council. -

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=24&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2018-02-28&amp;atitle=Record+number+of+LGBTs+running+in+March+Illinois+primary+election&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=24&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2018-02-28&amp;atitle=Record+number+of+LGBTs+running+in+March+Illinois+primary+election&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Headnote ELECTIONS 2018
This year's elections feature a record number of openly LGBT candidates thorughout Illinois. The following individuals have publicly stated that they are members of the LGBT community and were on the ballot as of late February.
-Gaylon Alcaraz
Race: Cook County Board of Commissioners (4th District)
Website: Gaylon2018.com
The skinny: Alcaraz, who was inducted into the Chicago Gay and Lesbian Hall of Fame (now the Chicago LGBT Hall of Fame) in 2013, is a lifelong Chicagoan who has made significant impacts in local progressive politics. She was a founding member of Affinity Community Services in 1997, and was executive director of Chicago Abortion Fund from 2005-2014, among her many accomplishments.
-Kelly Cassidy
Race: Illinois state representative (14th District)
Website: http://citizensforcassidy.com
The skinny: Cassidy, who recently wed activist Candice Gingrich, has served her district since 2011. Seeking to get re-elected, Cassidy (the only openly lesbian member of the General Assembly) will clash with Arthur Noah Siegel in the primary.
-Rev. Marcus Fogliano
Race: Peoria County Precinct Committeeman
Website: None
Only in their mid-20s, activist Fogliano (who is president/CEO at Peoria Proud as well as part of the board of trustees at Interfaith alliance of Central Illinois) stands to truly make history, as being elected would make them the first trans/ genderqueer person elected to any office in Illinois.
-Mike Forti
Race: 8th Subcircuit, Cook County judge (Liu Vacancy)
Website: JudgeForti.com
The skinny: In September 2016, Judge Michael A. Forti was appointed by the Illinois Supreme Court to the Circuit Court of Cook County. He has backing from political heavyweights such as U.S Reps. Jan Schakowsky and Mike Quigley as well as Illinois Senate President John Cullerton.
-Daniel Foster
Race: Cook County Board of Commissioners (13th District)
Website: https://commissionerfoster.com
The skinny: A current resident of Skokie, Foster was raised in Evanston and Wilmette, and obtained his BS in mathematics and computer science from the University of Illinois at Chicago. He and Gaylon Alcaraz are vying to be the first members of the LGBT community to be Cook County commissioners.
-Marcelino Garcia
Race: Metropolitan Water Reclamation Commissioner
Website: MarcelinoGarcia.com
The skinny: Garcia, an attorney, is director of community affairs for the Cook County health and hospitals system-the nation's third largest public health system. He is also a Partner with Overseas Strategies, LLC, an international business development consulting firm that helps small and medium-sized companies with the logistics of import and export and market development.
-Greg Harris
Race: Illinois state representative (13th District)
Website: GregHarris.org
The skinny: Harris-who was chief co-sponsor of SB10, the legislation that brought about marriage equality in Illinois-has a district that includes several North Side neighborhoods. Harris (who was first elected to the state House in 2006, and is the first openly gay person in Illinois to become a member of legislative leadership) is running unopposed in the March 20 primary.
-Janice Bruce Hightower
Race: Kendall County board (District 1)
Website: None listed
The skinny: Hightower, a civil-rights consultant, had previously lived and worked in New Mexico for 35 years. Hightower is running as a write-in for the Kendall County board.
-Cecelia Horan
Race: Cook Circuit judge (Hartigan Vacancy)
Website: https://voteforjudgehoran.com
The skinny: The Illinois Supreme Court appointed Horan was appointed a judge in the Circuit Court of Cook County on Jan. 19, 2017. She is presently assigned to the First Municipal Division where she hears cases involving alleged breaches of contract, the rights of landlords and tenants, debtors and creditors, and traffic matters. Prior to her judicial appointment, Horan was a litigation partner at the 500-attorney law firm of Hinshaw & Culbertson LLP, where she practiced for 20 years.
-Andy Kirchoff
Race: Berwyn Township Republican Committeeman
The skinny: Kirchoff ran in 2016 for state representative in the 24th District as the Republican candidate.
-Mike McHale
Race: Circuit Court of Cook County
The skinny: McHale, who handles cases in the Criminal Division, is running for retention this year. He was inducted into the Chicago Gay and Lesbian Hall of Fame (now the Chicago LGBT Hall of Fame) in 2005.
-Stephanie Miller
Race: 6th Subcircuit, Cook County judge (Lopez Cepero Vacancy)
Website: ElectJudgeStephanieMiller.com
The skinny: Miller (a member of the Puerto Rican Bar Association and the Women's Bar Association of Illinois) has almost two decades of experience handling both criminal and civil matters. Prior to her appointment, Miller was a prosecutor with the Cook County State's Attorney's Office.
-Kevin Morrison
Race: Cook County commissioner (15th District)
Website: KevinBMorrison.com
The skinny: A Democratic resident of Elk Grove Village, Morrison-who studied environmental sciences at DePaul University-is running against incumbent Commissioner Tim Schneider. The Chicago Federation of Labor is among those endorsing Morrison.
-Jill Rose Quinn
Race: 10th Subcircuit, Cook County judge (Suriano Vacancy)
Website: VoteJillRoseQuinn.com
The skinny: Quinn's private practice experience includes working at general legal practices in Chicago, Bloomington, Lombard, Glen Ellyn and Franklin Park, where she handled a wide variety of case types. Throughout her career, she handled over 4,000 cases and performed appellate work. She is a member of the National LGBT Bar Association and Chicago LGBT Chamber of Commerce.
-Mary Colleen Roberts
Race: Circuit Court of Cook County
The skinny: Roberts is running for retention this year. She is a judge on the Cook County 11th Subcircuit in Illinois. She was elected in 2006 and was retained in 2012. Prior to the bench, Roberts was a hearing officer for the Cook County Circuit Court and assistant corporation counsel for the Chicago Law Department.
-Lamont Robinson
Race: Illinois state representative (5th District)
Website: www.votelamontrobinson.com
The skinny: Robinson-who runs two Chicago Allstate Insurance offices, in Bronzeville and Humboldt Park-is aiming to fill the Illinois House's 5th District post currently held by state Rep. Juliana Stratton, who is running for lieutenant governor alongside gubernatorial candidate J.B. Pritzker. Should he be elected, Robinson would be the first openly gay African-American state legislator in Illinois history. Interestingly, one of his primary opponents is Ken Dunkin-a neighbor of Robinson's who lost to Stratton in 2015.
-Daniel Roldán-Johnson
Race: U.S. Congress (14th District)
Website: VoteRoldan.com
The skinny: Should Roldán-Johnson win, he would be the first openly gay member of the U.S. Congress from Illinois. He attended Florida Atlantic University and DePaul University, where he met his husband, Christian. He's facing six opponents in the Democrat primary-and the winner gets Republican incumbent Randy Hultgren.
-Debra Shore
Race: Metropolitan Water Reclamation District commissioner
Website: https://www.debrashore.org/
The skinny: Shore has served on the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District board since 2006. She is a member of the Illinois Women's Institute for Leadership and served on the board (and was past chair) of the Gay and Lesbian Victory Fund. She is running for her third six-year term in the 2018 election.
-Maggie Trevor
Race: Illinois state representative (54th District)
Website: http://trevorforstaterep.net/
The skinny: Trevor, who identifies as lesbian, is the only candidate in the Democratic primary- and incumbent Tom Morrison is the sole candidate in the Republican primary. Trevor was born and raised in Rolling Meadows, where her parents were among the city's original residents.
-Brad Trowbridge
Race: Cook Circuit judge (McGinnis Vacancy)
Website: https://bradforjudge.com
The skinny: As an attorney, Trowbridge has litigated cases in domestic relations, chancery, probate, and criminal divisions. Also, he currently is an adjunct faculty member at John Marshall Law School's Domestic Violence Clinic.
-Ed underhill
Race: 6th Subcircuit, Cook County judge (Cooke Vacancy)
Website: http://edunderhillforjudge.com/
The skinny: Underhill is a trial attorney with more than 30 years of experience, and a Bucktown homeowner for the past 17 years. Underhill has been a member of the Chicago Bar Association Judicial Evaluation Committee and is a former president of the Northern Illinois University Alumni Council.
-Sam Yingling
Race: Illinois state representative (62nd District)
Website: SamYingling.com
The skinny: Grayslake resident Yingling is running unopposed in the primary for his fourth term. He is the first openly gay House member from outside metropolitan Chicago. Yingling proposed to longtime partner Lowell Jaffe at the party former Illinois Gov. Pat Quinn threw to celebrate the passage of Illinois' marriage-equality bill in 2013. (They married in 2015.)

Subject: Primaries & caucuses; State court decisions; Gays & lesbians; Judicial appointments; Non-binary gender; Websites; Attorneys

Business indexing term: Subject: Attorneys

Location: Cook County Illinois; Chicago Illinois; Florida; New Mexico; United States--US; Illinois

People: Hultgren, Randy; Schakowsky, Jan; Quigley, Mike; Stratton, Juliana; Schneider, Tim; Quinn, Pat; Cassidy, Kelly

Company / organization: Name: Supreme Court-Illinois; NAICS: 922110; Name: University of Illinois at Chicago; NAICS: 611310; Name: Florida Atlantic University; NAICS: 611310; Name: Hinshaw & Culbertson; NAICS: 541110; Name: Northern Illinois University; NAICS: 611310; Name: Senate; NAICS: 921120; Name: DePaul University; NAICS: 611310; Name: John Marshall Law School-Chicago IL; NAICS: 611310; Name: Congress-US; NAICS: 921120

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Record number of LGBTs running in March Illinois primary election

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 33

Issue: 24

Pages: 16-17

Publication year: 2018

Publication date: Feb 28, 2018

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 2012882207

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/record-number-lgbts-running-march-illinois/docview/2012882207/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 28, 2018

Last updated: 2024-08-28

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Southern Gothic

Author: Barnidge, Mary Shen

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/southern-gothic/docview/2012880493/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: (Furnishings include window benches for playgoers of stationary bent, but since the intrigue will be spread over the entire landscape, couples may want to part.) The occasion is the 40th birthday of Mrs. Suzanne Wellington, the hosts are in-laws Ellie and Beau, attended by the guest-of-honor's husband Jackson, local politician Charles and wife Lauren, trustfund playboy Tucker and current consort Cassie (who, as a shocked matron gasps, "looks like Lena Horne"). Before the cake appears, we will bear witness to hints of past crimes, some linked to their time and place (out-of-wedlock pregnancy, marijuana consumption), some still evident today (embezzlement, adultery, domestic abuse).

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=24&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=20&amp;date=2018-02-28&amp;atitle=Southern+Gothic&amp;au=Barnidge%2C+Mary+Shen&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=24&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=20&amp;date=2018-02-28&amp;atitle=Southern+Gothic&amp;au=Barnidge%2C+Mary+Shen&amp;id=doi:

Full text: THEATER REVIEW
Southern Gothic
Playwright: Leslie Liautaud
At: Windy City Playhouse, 3014 W. Irving Park Rd.
Tickets: $65-$85
Runs through: March 18
In some circles, this literary genre would be called "immersive" theater, in others, "fly-onthe-wall" drama. The important thing to remember is that flies don't always remain in the same spot on the same wall.
As in Alan Aykbourn's House & Garden, Leslie Liautaud's play progresses in simultaneous real time over several locales, and as in "mosh pit" staging, audience members are free to roam the performance space at will. Unlike promenade staging, however, they are not ushered in groups, nor do they interact with the characters-this isn't Tony and Tina's Wedding. Once the action commences, spectators are to eavesdrop, but not interrupt.
Our setting on this summer day in 1961 is a post-bellum house in Ashford, Georgia-parlor, dining room, kitchen, bathroom, patio and front stoop, replicated both inside and outside with dioramic accuracy, down to the civic-booster jingles on the radio. (Furnishings include window benches for playgoers of stationary bent, but since the intrigue will be spread over the entire landscape, couples may want to part.) The occasion is the 40th birthday of Mrs. Suzanne Wellington, the hosts are in-laws Ellie and Beau, attended by the guest-of-honor's husband Jackson, local politician Charles and wife Lauren, trustfund playboy Tucker and current consort Cassie (who, as a shocked matron gasps, "looks like Lena Horne").
The dubious legality of interracial dating in 1961 isn't the only socially divisive issue that will ensue-conflicts fueled by the delayed arrival of catered refreshments mandating a repast based in pantry staples and a surplus of alcohol. Before the cake appears, we will bear witness to hints of past crimes, some linked to their time and place (out-of-wedlock pregnancy, marijuana consumption), some still evident today (embezzlement, adultery, domestic abuse). Which of these topics will be explored in greatest detail depends on where you happen to be during discussion thereof-you know, the same as at a reallife party.
Ninety minutes of continuous activity involving this many moving parts-did I mention the backyard fistfight?-could dissolve into chaos faster than a soggy spam-and-saltine canape. Fortunately, this Windy City Playhouse production has at its helm David H. Bell, the unsurpassed master of three-ring spectacles. He is assisted by an eight-member ensemble who navigate its confined quarters with drill-team precision to ensure everyone gets his or her just deserts in the end.

Subject: Theater

Location: Georgia; United States--US

People: Horne, Lena

Company / organization: Name: Windy City Playhouse; NAICS: 711110; Name: House & Garden; NAICS: 513120

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Southern Gothic

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 33

Issue: 24

Pages: 20

Publication year: 2018

Publication date: Feb 28, 2018

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Theater Review

ProQuest document ID: 2012880493

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/southern-gothic/docview/2012880493/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 28, 2018

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Record number of LGBTs running in March Illinois primary election

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/record-number-lgbts-running-march-illinois/docview/1988086047/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Daniel Foster Race: Cook County Board of Commissioners (13th District) Website: https://commissionerfoster.com The skinny: A current resident of Skokie, Foster was raised in Evanston and Wilmette, and obtained his BS in mathematics and computer science from the University of Illinois at Chicago. Prior to the bench, Roberts was a hearing officer for the Cook County Circuit Court and assistant corporation counsel for the Chicago Law Department. - Underhill has been a member of the Chicago Bar Association Judicial Evaluation Committee and is a former president of the Northern Illinois University Alumni Council. -

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=17&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2018-01-10&amp;atitle=Record+number+of+LGBTs+running+in+March+Illinois+primary+election&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=17&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2018-01-10&amp;atitle=Record+number+of+LGBTs+running+in+March+Illinois+primary+election&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Headnote ELECTIONS 2018
This year's elections feature a record number of openly LGBT candidates throughout Illinois. The following individuals have publicly stated that they are LGBT and were on the March 2018 primary election ballot as early January.
-Gaylon Alcaraz
Race: Cook County Board of Commissioners (4th District)
Website: Gaylon2018.com
The skinny: Alcaraz, who was inducted into the Chicago Gay and Lesbian Hall of Fame (now the Chicago LGBT Hall of Fame) in 2013, is a lifelong Chicagoan who has made significant impacts in local progressive politics. She was a founding member of Affinity Community Services in 1997, and was executive director of Chicago Abortion Fund from 2005-2014, among her many accomplishments.
-Kelly Cassidy
Race: Illinois state representative (14th District)
Website: http://citizensforcassidy.com
The skinny: Cassidy, who recently wed activist Candice Gingrich, has served her district since 2011. Seeking to get re-elected, Cassidy (the only openly lesbian member of the General Assembly) will clash with Arthur Noah Siegel in the primary.
-Ebonie Davis
Race: Illinois state representative (25th District)
Website: https://www.eboniesdavis.com/
The skinny: Davis is one of almost 10 candidates vying for the seat that longtime state Rep. Barbara Flynn Currie is vacating. Davis-a longtime advocate who has worked as an instructor and facilitator for Illinois Department Human Rights' Institute for Training and Development- has also been active in a number of community LGBT organizations, including Affinity Community Services and Equality Illinois.
-Rev. Marcus Fogliano
Race: Peoria County Precinct Committeeman
Website: None
Only in their mid-20s, activist Fogliano (who is president/CEO at Peoria Proud as well as part of the board of trustees at Interfaith alliance of Central Illinois) stands to truly make history, as being elected would make them the first trans/ genderqueer person elected to any office in Illinois.
-Mike Forti
Race: 8th Subcircuit, Cook County judge (Liu Vacancy)
Website: JudgeForti.com
The skinny: In September 2016, Judge Michael A. Forti was appointed by the Illinois Supreme Court to the Circuit Court of Cook County. He has backing from political heavyweights such as U.S Reps. Jan Schakowsky and Mike Quigley as well as Illinois Senate President John Cullerton.
-Daniel Foster
Race: Cook County Board of Commissioners (13th District)
Website: https://commissionerfoster.com
The skinny: A current resident of Skokie, Foster was raised in Evanston and Wilmette, and obtained his BS in mathematics and computer science from the University of Illinois at Chicago. He and Gaylon Alcaraz are vying to be the first members of the LGBT community to be Cook County commissioners.
-Greg Harris
Race: Illinois state representative (13th District)
Website: GregHarris.org
The skinny: Harris-who was chief co-sponsor of SB10, the legislation that brought about marriage equality in Illinois-has a district that includes several North Side neighborhoods. Harris (who was first elected to the state House in 2006, and is the first openly gay person in Illinois to become a member of legislative leadership) is running unopposed in the March 20 primary.
-Cecelia Horan
Race: Cook Circuit judge (Hartigan Vacancy)
Website: https://voteforjudgehoran.com
The skinny: The Illinois Supreme Court appointed Horan was appointed a judge in the Circuit Court of Cook County on Jan. 19, 2017. She is presently assigned to the First Municipal Division where she hears cases involving alleged breaches of contract, the rights of landlords and tenants, debtors and creditors, and traffic matters. Prior to her judicial appointment, Horan was a litigation partner at the 500-attorney law firm of Hinshaw & Culbertson LLP, where she practiced for 20 years.
-Andy Kirchoff
Race: Berwyn Township Republican Committeeman
The skinny: Kirchoff ran in 2016 for state representative in the 24th District as the Republican candidate.
-Raymond A. Lopez
Race: U.S. Congress (4th District)
Website: The15thWard.org
The skinny: Lopez is another of a fistful of Democratic candidates (and one of two gay candidates, besides Carlos Ramirez-Rosa) to seek election to this post. Lopez is the 15th Ward alderman in Chicago, having been elected in 2015. Lopez was first elected as Democratic Committeeman of the 15th Ward in 2012, becoming the first openly gay Mexican-American to be elected in Illinois.
-Mike McHale
Race: Circuit Court of Cook County
The skinny: McHale, who handles cases in the Criminal Division, is running for retention this year. He was inducted into the Chicago Gay and Lesbian Hall of Fame (now the Chicago LGBT Hall of Fame) in 2005.
-Stephanie Miller
Race: 6th Subcircuit, Cook County judge (Lopez Cepero Vacancy)
Website: ElectJudgeStephanieMiller.com
The skinny: Miller (a member of the Puerto Rican Bar Association and the Women's Bar Association of Illinois) has almost two decades of experience handling both criminal and civil matters. Prior to her appointment, Miller was a prosecutor with the Cook County State's Attorney's Office.
-Jill Quinn
Race: 10th Subcircuit, Cook County judge (Suriano Vacancy)
Website: VoteJillRoseQuinn.com
The skinny: Quinn's private practice experience includes working at general legal practices in Chicago, Bloomington, Lombard, Glen Ellyn and Franklin Park, where she handled a wide variety of case types. Throughout her career, she handled over 4,000 cases and performed appellate work. She is a member of the National LGBT Bar Association and Chicago LGBT Chamber of Commerce.
-Mary Colleen Roberts
Race: Circuit Court of Cook County
The skinny: Roberts is running for retention this year. She is a judge on the Cook County 11th Subcircuit in Illinois. She was elected in 2006 and was retained in 2012. Prior to the bench, Roberts was a hearing officer for the Cook County Circuit Court and assistant corporation counsel for the Chicago Law Department.
-Lamont Robinson
Race: Illinois state representative (5th District)
Website: www.votelamontrobinson.com
The skinny: Robinson-who runs two Chicago Allstate Insurance offices, in Bronzeville and Humboldt Park-is aiming to fill the Illinois House's 5th District post currently held by state Rep. Juliana Stratton, who is running for lieutenant governor alongside gubernatorial candidate J.B. Pritzker. Should he be elected, Robinson would be the first openly gay African-American state legislator in Illinois history. Interestingly, one of his primary opponents is Ken Dunkin-a neighbor of Robinson's who lost to Stratton in 2015.
-Daniel Roldán-Johnson
Race: U.S. Congress (14th District)
Website: VoteRoldan.com
The skinny: Should Roldán-Johnson win, he would be the first openly gay member of the U.S. Congress from Illinois. He attended Florida Atlantic University and DePaul University, where he met his husband, Christian. He's facing six opponents in the Democrat primary-and the winner gets Republican incumbent Randy Hultgren.
-Debra Shore
Race: Metropolitan Water Reclamation District commissioner
Website: https://www.debrashore.org/
The skinny: Shore has served on the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District board since 2006. She is a member of the Illinois Women's Institute for Leadership and served on the board (and was past chair) of the Gay and Lesbian Victory Fund. She is running for her third six-year term in the 2018 election.
-Brad Trowbridge
Race: Cook Circuit judge (McGinnis Vacancy)
Website: https://bradforjudge.com
The skinny: As an attorney, Trowbridge has litigated cases in domestic relations, chancery, probate, and criminal divisions. Also, he currently is an adjunct faculty member at John Marshall Law School's Domestic Violence Clinic.
-Ed Underhill
Race: 6th Subcircuit, Cook County judge (Cooke Vacancy)
Website: http://edunderhillforjudge.com/
The skinny: Underhill is a trial attorney with more than 30 years of experience, and a Bucktown homeowner for the past 17 years. Underhill has been a member of the Chicago Bar Association Judicial Evaluation Committee and is a former president of the Northern Illinois University Alumni Council.
-Sam Yingling
Race: Illinois state representative (62nd District)
Website: SamYingling.com
The skinny: Grayslake resident Yingling is running unopposed in the primary for his fourth term. He is the first openly gay House member from outside metropolitan Chicago. Yingling proposed to longtime partner Lowell Jaffe at the party former Illinois Gov. Pat Quinn threw to celebrate the passage of Illinois' marriage-equality bill in 2013. (They married in 2015.)

Subject: Political appointments; Attorneys; State court decisions; Gays & lesbians; Primaries & caucuses; Judicial appointments; Non-binary gender; Websites

Location: Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Record number of LGBTs running in March Illinois primary election

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 33

Issue: 17

Pages: 6,18

Publication year: 2018

Publication date: Jan 10, 2018

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 1988086047

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/record-number-lgbts-running-march-illinois/docview/1988086047/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jan 10, 2018

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

MCC elder talks Cajun roots, faith and lesbian polyamorous relationship

Author: Maxwell, Carrie

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mcc-elder-talks-cajun-roots-faith-lesbian/docview/1979764871/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: After Brown graduated, she worked at radio stations with many formats including contemporary Christian, alternative rock and at NPR (mostly in Missouri) where her duties included doing public speaking engagements and covering concerts and festivals. MCC celebrates queer holy days, including honoring significant persons and events such as Transgender Day of Remembrance, World AIDS Day, IDAHO/T, Pride, National Coming Out Day and other specific cultural days or months. "While I was the interim pastor of aChurch4Me MCC in the Rogers Park neighborhood, it was such an honor to serve such a diverse, artistic and spiritual community of faith," said Brown.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=13&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=24&amp;date=2017-12-13&amp;atitle=MCC+elder+talks+Cajun+roots%2C+faith+and+lesbian+polyamorous+relationship&amp;au=Maxwell%2C+Carrie&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=13&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=24&amp;date=2017-12-13&amp;atitle=MCC+elder+talks+Cajun+roots%2C+faith+and+lesbian+polyamorous+relationship&amp;au=Maxwell%2C+Carrie&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Rev. Elder Rachelle Brown's journey toward the ministry and the Metropolitan Community Church (MCC) began in her early thirties, when she was looking for a spiritual connection after many years away due to the rejection she faced after coming out as a lesbian while in college. She decided to enter an MCC church (while living in St. Louis) for the first time and instead of being disappointed she was amazed at what she witnessed that day-a denomination that blesses and celebrates everyone.
"After moving to St. Louis in 2000, I experienced my first Pride in 2001 and stopped at an MCC of Greater St. Louis vendor table," said Brown. "It was in MCC that I came out to God, as well as others. My background is Catholic, Charismatic and then Pentecostal. MCC has the mixture of traditions that allowed me to find my own expression of faith and spirituality."
Brown (who is of Acadian Cajun ancestry) grew up in a small, rural community in Vermillion Parish, Louisiana called Indian Bayou and lived in her maternal great-grandparent's farmhouse with her parents and sister most of her childhood.
"Acadians originated in France-we were mostly poor farmers who followed the French explorers to Canada trying to escape peonage," said Brown. "The British expelled my ancestors from the region between 1755 and 1763, an event known as Le Grand Derangement (the Great Upheaval). People were packed into ships and sent south. About half died from smallpox and other diseases. Many, including my ancestors, traveled south on the Mississippi to Louisiana."
Brown explained that her family traveled on a pilgrimage when she was young to Grand-Pre in Nova Scotia to see the place where her exiled ancestors' names are listed. She noted that over time Cajun culture, and especially the language, was lost by many due to English language only schools, however, books like "Clovis Crawfish" and the Cajun cultural revolution of the '80s has made people aware of her people's history. Brown said many of her older family members kept the Cajun language alive including her mother's parents and paternal great-grandfather.
"Being Cajun is a way of life, a state of mind and a sense of humor," said Brown. "I enjoy crawfish, spicy food, Community Coffee in the red bag, Steen's pure sugar cane syrup, Boudin sausage, rum and fish on Friday. There is something about listening to old-time Cajun music, zydeco or swamp pop that brings a smile-even on a freezing Chicago day. No matter where I am- faith, family and laissez les bon temps rouler [are] on my mind and in my blood."
As early as her teen years, Brown was thinking about attending Bible College but those plans were put on hold due to a work-study opportunity at the College of the Ozarks' (in Point Lookout, Missouri) radio station that steered her into a media career during her 20s and early 30s. She got her BA in mass media at the College of the Ozarks, and her MA in communications from Southwest Missouri State University (now Missouri State University).
After Brown graduated, she worked at radio stations with many formats including contemporary Christian, alternative rock and at NPR (mostly in Missouri) where her duties included doing public speaking engagements and covering concerts and festivals. She worked in production and as the music director and later for a marketing agency.
While working in marketing, Brown sought out a new spiritual home that would embrace her whole self and that is how she came to the MCC in St. Louis that fateful day.
As Brown immersed herself in the MCC church over the next few years, including spending time with queer theologian Rev. Dr. Bob Goss, she decided to enter the ministry to better help and give hope to young LGBTQ people trying to live a life of faith.
She received her Master of Divinity degree from Eden Theological Seminary in St. Louis and, while there, began her chaplaincy work focused on perpetrators of domestic violence. Brown was ordained in 2007 and in 2008 she moved to Chicago to work on her Ph.D. in theology at Chicago Theological Seminary.
The MCC Governing Board elected Brown to be interim moderator in October 2016; she will serve until the next General Conference in 2019. An "elder" is a name given to ministers who are highly esteemed, respected and looked to for wisdom. The Council of Elders and Governing Board affirmed her roles as elder and she was installed in January 2017.
Additionally, since this is the first interim for MCC, some in the denomination consider her status as an elder and interim moderator revolutionary due to her, what some may call, unique family structure.
When Brown met married lesbian couple Michelle Jestes and Dama Elkins-Jestes about seven years ago, she found her soulmates in the two women. They embarked on a relationship together (which includes raising their child, Ayden) that they call "a couple of three," and currently reside in a Chicago suburb.
This "couple of three" goes back to Brown's childhood projects with her father.
"When asking for a few things he would jokingly say, hand me 'a couple of three' of whatever I was handing over," said Brown. "As our family considered how to refer to each other, the language of polyamory is always forming, so we decided a couple of three best described the closed nature of our covenant and commitments. We have all learned so much each year together. It is not simple to be out, or even engage in conversations with traditional couples. I learned recently that when I say 'family,' some assume we are blood relatives.
"Back in the early 2000s when I was coming out as a lesbian, I did not know anyone that would be considered polyamorous. It has been a journey-one that MCC allowed space for me to discover and live in. Some congregants say nothing; others begin to talk more openly about their own relationships, both monogamous and non-monogamous. We are fully committed and in sacred covenant to each other, honoring the complexity of the relationships we represent. I personally believe it is the most authentic and loving way for me to be in relationship, while aware that it is not possible or even advisable for others."
MCC celebrates queer holy days, including honoring significant persons and events such as Transgender Day of Remembrance, World AIDS Day, IDAHO/T, Pride, National Coming Out Day and other specific cultural days or months.
"While I was the interim pastor of aChurch4Me MCC in the Rogers Park neighborhood, it was such an honor to serve such a diverse, artistic and spiritual community of faith," said Brown. "I embrace the complexity of my ethnicity, cultural heritage, gender, orientation, class, education and vocation. Our conversations and work together all have different starting points, yet we share in the need for liberation of our body, spirit and mind."

Subject: Families & family life; Theology; Theological schools; Spirituality; Cultural heritage

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: MCC elder talks Cajun roots, faith and lesbian polyamorous relationship

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 33

Issue: 13

Pages: 24

Publication year: 2017

Publication date: Dec 13, 2017

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1979764871

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mcc-elder-talks-cajun-roots-faith-lesbian/docview/1979764871/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Dec 13, 2017

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

My Black lesbian body is a target for police brutality

Author: Monroe, Irene

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/my-black-lesbian-body-is-target-police-brutality/docview/1977751297/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Because of maltreatment in jail, in 2014 James become a delegate to testify before the Committee Against Torture (CAT) at Geneva Switzerland. The over-policing of women of color is due to gang violence, the war on drugs, war on terrorism, Islamophobia, poverty, sex trade, domestic violence and mental health, to name a few. According to a 2016 investigation by the Buffalo News, a police officer, on average, is caught in the act of sexual misconduct every five days.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=12&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=18&amp;date=2017-12-06&amp;atitle=My+Black+lesbian+body+is+a+target+for+police+brutality&amp;au=Monroe%2C+Irene&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=12&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=18&amp;date=2017-12-06&amp;atitle=My+Black+lesbian+body+is+a+target+for+police+brutality&amp;au=Monroe%2C+Irene&amp;id=doi:

Full text: The reality of unarmed African-American women- LBTQ, gender nonconforming and straight-being beaten, profiled, sexually violated and murdered by law enforcement officials with alarming regularity is too often ignored, especially with the focus of police brutality on our males.
Like so many African-American women, Sandra Bland's death in 2015, resulting from police brutality was not new news. The national attention it received was, however.
Recently, Northeastern University conducted a panel to discuss the topic titled "Invisible No More: Black Women and Police Violence" that looked at criminalization of African-American women, Indigenous women, and women of color like Two-Spirit, Latinx, Asian, Arab and Middle Eastern women, to name a few, and mass incarceration and police violence that sometimes resulted with deadly consequences.
The panel of experts included:
-Andrea Ritchie is an African-American lesbian and a police misconduct attorney and organizer. She's the author of Invisible No More: Racial Profiling and Police Brutality Against Women of Color that has recently come out, and the co-author of Say Her Name: Resisting Police Violence Against Black Women as well as Queer (In)Justice: The Criminalization of LGBT People in the United States.
-Simone John is a Boston-based poet, educator and facilitator. She's the author of Testify, her first full-length book of poems about African-Americans impacted by state-sanctioned violence.
-Monica James is a Black trans woman activist. She is the national organizer for Black and Pink, and a collective member of Transformative Justice Law Project. Because of maltreatment in jail, in 2014 James become a delegate to testify before the Committee Against Torture (CAT) at Geneva Switzerland. Her work towards the advancement of trans justice, transformative justice, and prison abolition has made her national spokeswoman.
Robyn Maynard is a Black feminist author, grassroots community organizer and independent scholar based in Montreal. She's the author of Policing Black Lives: State Violence in Canada from Slavery to the Present.
The panel discussed the context around the historical and present-day patterns and paradigms of policing and punishment that stems from centuries of colonialism, slavery, segregation, and immigration. The over-policing of women of color is due to gang violence, the war on drugs, war on terrorism, Islamophobia, poverty, sex trade, domestic violence and mental health, to name a few.
Transmisogyny and racism put transgender women of color, in particular, at a high risk of police violence. Less than half of trans women of color report discriminatory policing such as "stop and frisk" and "walking while trans." Trans women of color who have participated in underground economies have experienced excessive police violence-i.e., 34 percent of Latinx and 53 percent of Blacks.
For example, in 2007 James was subjected to excessive police violence. She was viciously attacked by an off-duty police officer in Chicago, arrested, and charged with attempted murder for defending herself. While in prison, James, like many trans women, was misgendered by correctional officers and inmates, sexually assaulted repeatedly and denied access to gender-affirming healthcare.
Shockingly, too, gender-based forms of police violence, such as sexual assault, are wildly pervasive, gravely ignored and deliberately underreported. While the nation learned of the rapes of more than a dozen African-American women at the hand of now-convicted Oklahoma City police officer Daniel Holtzclaw, most incidents like this one enjoy impunity.
The reason many sexual assaults go unaccounted for is that half of the 35 top 50 police departments in the United States have no policies prohibiting police sexual violence against the public. According to a 2016 investigation by the Buffalo News, a police officer, on average, is caught in the act of sexual misconduct every five days. Ritchie stated, "Those are just the ones who are caught, representing, by all accounts, just the tip of the iceberg of this pervasive yet invisible form of police violence."
For example, to avoid being assaulted during "stop-and-frisk" many women of color have been forced into sexual acts to stave off arrest. Too often an officer will "turn off the microphone on his body camera and later claim it malfunctioned, and then lie about the gender of drivers he pulled over to cover up the numbers of women he targeted," Ritchie stated.
Bland has come "to stand for every Black woman who has ever changed lanes without using a turn signal or expressed frustration at getting a traffic ticket."
However, the perceptions and stereotypes of African-American women-combative, mouthy, not deferential enough and "angry Black woman"-can sadly turn into deadly action as we see with Bland. Bland's crime is what's depicted as "contempt of cop." She wasn't obsequious or subservient enough when the officer asked her to extinguish her cigarette. And for something as minor as a traffic signal violation, the incident escalated out of control. But when the dominant culture doesn't see and hear African-American voices about our pains, fears, vulnerabilities our humanity is distorted and made invisible through a prism of racist and sexist stereotypes. So, too, is our suffering.
The campaign "Say Her Name" addresses the lack of reporting, documenting, and accounting for the violations and death of African-American women and girls at the hand of law enforcement officials.
Every day when my spouse or I leave home, I pray we return to each other.

Subject: African Americans; Women; Sex crimes; Police brutality

Location: Montreal Quebec Canada; United States--US; Canada; Geneva Switzerland; Switzerland

People: Bland, Sandra

Company / organization: Name: Northeastern University-Boston MA; NAICS: 611310

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: My Black lesbian body is a target for police brutality

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 33

Issue: 12

Pages: 18

Publication year: 2017

Publication date: Dec 6, 2017

Section: viewpoints

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 1977751297

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/my-black-lesbian-body-is-target-police-brutality/docview/1977751297/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Dec 6, 2017

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Credits

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/credits/docview/1977751215/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=12&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=18&amp;date=2017-12-06&amp;atitle=Credits&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=12&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=18&amp;date=2017-12-06&amp;atitle=Credits&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Not available.

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Credits

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 33

Issue: 12

Pages: 18

Publication year: 2017

Publication date: Dec 6, 2017

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Credits

ProQuest document ID: 1977751215

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/credits/docview/1977751215/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Dec 6, 2017

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

NCAVP, HRC/TPOCC release reports on anti-trans violence

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ncavp-hrc-tpocc-release-reports-on-anti-trans/docview/1968383516/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: The National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs (NCAVP) has released the report "Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer and HIV-Affected Intimate Partner Violence in 2016." (Chicago's Center on Halsted was the Illinois representative.) Among the results are: -LGBTQ and HIV-affected people of color made up 60 percent of the reports of IPV homicides, and 59 percent of the total number of survivors who reported to NCAVP members in 2016; -Transgender women were 2.5 times more likely to be stalked, 2.5 times more likely to experience financial violence, and twice as likely to experience online harassment within IPV; and -There was an increase in the percentage of survivors who identified as Latinx from 24 percent in 2015 to 30 percent in 2016. [...]the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) Foundation and the Trans People of Color Coalition (TPOCC) have released "A Time to Act: Fatal Violence Against Transgender People in America in 2017." Since the start of the year, at least 25 transgender people have been killed in the United States-the most on record.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=10&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=4&amp;date=2017-11-22&amp;atitle=NCAVP%2C+HRC%2FTPOCC+release+reports+on+anti-trans+violence&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=10&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=4&amp;date=2017-11-22&amp;atitle=NCAVP%2C+HRC%2FTPOCC+release+reports+on+anti-trans+violence&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: The National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs (NCAVP) has released the report "Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer and HIV-Affected Intimate Partner Violence in 2016."
The report looks at the experiences of 2,032 survivors of intimate-partner violence (IPV) who reported to 14 NCAVP member organizations from nine states, including California, Texas, New York, Arizona, Illinois, Massachusetts, Ohio, Vermont and Missouri. (Chicago's Center on Halsted was the Illinois representative.)
Among the results are:
-LGBTQ and HIV-affected people of color made up 60 percent of the reports of IPV homicides, and 59 percent of the total number of survivors who reported to NCAVP members in 2016;
-Transgender women were 2.5 times more likely to be stalked, 2.5 times more likely to experience financial violence, and twice as likely to experience online harassment within IPV; and
-There was an increase in the percentage of survivors who identified as Latinx from 24 percent in 2015 to 30 percent in 2016.
Also, the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) Foundation and the Trans People of Color Coalition (TPOCC) have released "A Time to Act: Fatal Violence Against Transgender People in America in 2017."
Since the start of the year, at least 25 transgender people have been killed in the United States-the most on record. Eighty-four percent were people of color, and 80 percent were women.
This report lists those transgender individuals who have been killed so far in 2017, complete with photos and bios. There is then information about cases of fatal violence by race, gender identity and state, among other classifications. (Illinois, for example, has three cases of fatal violence between 2013-17; California and Louisiana were tied for the most, with 10 each.)
In a statement, Center on Halsted Chief Program Officer Dr. Hector Torres said, "As a founding member of NCAVP, Center on Halsted has been providing services to support LGBTQ survivors of domestic and sexual violence since 1988, while contributing to shifting policy and practice efforts to be more LGBTQ-inclusive, nationally."
"Not only are these individuals more likely to be targeted; their options for accessing safe and relevant services diminishes. This is a big reason why LGBTQ specific services are crucial to our communities," added Rachel Tillman, AVP cinical advocate at Center on Halsted.
In Chicago, the majority (57 percent) domestic and sexual violence reported to Center on Halsted's Anti-Violence Program , were made by those who identified as cisgender males. People of color accounted for 63 percent of known ethnicity (29 percent African American, 26 percent Latinx, 3 percent Arab/Middle Eastern, and 5 percent Asian). Of those who reported their sexuality, the majority identified as gay (49 percent) with lesbians (18 percent) making up the next largest category. Transgender survivors face particular vulnerabilities, for instance, reporting additional violence when reporting the abuse to police.
The NCAVP report is at http://avp. o r g / w p - c o n t e n t / u p l o a d s / 2 0 1 7 / 0 6 / NCAVP_2016HateViolence_REPORT.pdf. The HRC/ TPOCC report is at http://assets2.hrc.org/files/ assets/resources/A_Time_To_Act_2017_REV3. pdf.

Subject: Domestic violence; Minority & ethnic groups; Gays & lesbians; Transgender persons; Murders & murder attempts; Gender identity

Location: Chicago Illinois; Texas; New York; United States--US; Massachusetts; Ohio; Arizona; Louisiana; Illinois; Missouri; California; Vermont

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: NCAVP, HRC/TPOCC release reports on anti-trans violence

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 33

Issue: 10

Pages: 4

Publication year: 2017

Publication date: Nov 22, 2017

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1968383516

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ncavp-hrc-tpocc-release-reports-on-anti-trans/docview/1968383516/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Nov 22, 2017

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Wrestler Anthony Bowens: Talking about sport, coming out as bi

Author: Davis, Andrew

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wrestler-anthony-bowens-talking-about-sport/docview/1950403393/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [...]he also experienced some negative feedback, including from those within the LGTQ community, who questioned the validity of his orientation-and of bisexuality in general. People talk about how fake it is, and also about the supposed rampant use of steroids, pointing to people like Chris Benoit [a wrestler who used illegal steroids, and who killed his wife and son before commiting suicide in 2007]. [...]there's a strict policy-and the guys don't even go out anymore; they tend to play video games.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=3&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=26&amp;date=2017-10-04&amp;atitle=Wrestler+Anthony+Bowens%3A+Talking+about+sport%2C+coming+out+as+bi&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=3&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=26&amp;date=2017-10-04&amp;atitle=Wrestler+Anthony+Bowens%3A+Talking+about+sport%2C+coming+out+as+bi&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Earlier this year, professional wrestler Anthony Bowens made waves and amassed support when he came out as bisexual.
However, he also experienced some negative feedback, including from those within the LGTQ community, who questioned the validity of his orientation-and of bisexuality in general.
Bowens (who said he's "still getting used to everything") recently talked with Windy City Times about his sport (including stereotypes), coming out and the stigma he faced after doing so.
Windy City Times: I want to start talking about the sport itself. I go back to the days of [former pro wrestlers] Harley Race, Nick Bockwinkel, Wahoo McDaniel and others. I'm curious as to how you even got involved in wrestling.
Anthony Bowens: Well, I was a big fan, too. I didn't know if I could do it, because most people don't realize how you can become a wrestler in the first place. Back in those days of Bockwinkel, Race and [Ric] Flair, business was a lot more protected. You had to have a connection to get in, and then you really had to pay your dues to be accepted. Nowadays, you can just join a wrestling school, which I found out after my college days.
I played baseball for 11 years. I stopped playing due to injury and I was kind of losing my mind; I was used to being on a baseball field for five or six hours a day. All of a sudden, it was gone-and I didn't know what to do with myself. Long story short, I started to look into wrestling. I happened to be lifting at my gym (and the WWE was in town) and a wrestler was there; I bothered him, asking for a picture. He then stopped me and a buddy, and asked me if I ever thought about being a wrestler. I went to the Creative Pro Wrestling Academy and, a week later, I started training.
WCT: Who was your main inspiration?
AB: Looking back, Sting was the main one who got me into it. Jeff Hardy inspired me as a person; he's always fearless and jumping off ladders. I was a shy young man, and he got me to be myself. I also got to appreciate wrestlers such as Chris Jericho and Eddie Guerrero-guys like that.
WCT: What do you think is the biggest misconception about pro wrestling? People talk about how fake it is, and also about the supposed rampant use of steroids, pointing to people like Chris Benoit [a wrestler who used illegal steroids, and who killed his wife and son before commiting suicide in 2007].
AB: To be honest, it's both of those. I hate the F-word [laughs]; I prefer the word "scripted." It's certainly not fake when I wake up the next morning and I feel like I've been hit by a truck. You have to look at it as scripted entertainment. The ring is not a trampoline; there's maybe an inch of padding, if it's a good one. It's a very physical sport.
Everything hurts-but we do it in ways that we don't get injured, if that makes sense. I've even had my tooth go through my bottom lip from a dropkick, and I've [severely] hurt nerves in my back; I've also gotten concussions. You usually walk away with something after each match.
There's also a misconception about the lifestyle. The lifestyle was way different in the '80s and '90s than it is now. Steroids and drugs were rampant, and combining those with being in the ring could be bad news. Now, there's a strict policy-and the guys don't even go out anymore; they tend to play video games. We're definitely moving forward in a better way.
WCT: With the injuries you've suffered, are you concerned with how you're going to be when you're, say, 50? [Bowens is 26.]
AB: Um ... that thought crosses my mind sometime, but I try to live in the present a little bit. I try not to let it deter me, though. Also, everyone's body is different; one wrestler can wrestle for a year and get injuries that last a lifetime, while others-like Jeff Hardy, who's been flipping off ladders for 15 to 20 years-can wrestle forever.
WCT: You made news earlier this year with Outsports. It's interesting: You came out as bisexual and got some blowback, including from those in the LGBT community. What's your response to someone who thinks, for example, that you're gay and not ready to admit it?
AB: Like I've said before, it's LGBTQ before for a reason. [Critics] have no right to say what a person should define themselves as; that's that person's choice. I know plenty of people who define themselves as bisexual; some prefer men over women, others like women more than men and some don't care. Yes, bisexuality exists.
If you have an attraction to both genders, you have, for example, an attraction to men that doesn't go away-even if you marry a woman for the rest of your life. I don't think people really understand that. It's not right for someone to tell others how they should identify themselves.
WCT: I don't know if you saw [Green Bay Packers quarterback] Aaron Rodgers when he said [on ESPN.com] that gay NFL players are still afraid of losing their jobs.
AB: Oh, I didn't see that.
WCT: OK. Well, I'm wondering if the wrestling community was very supportive when you came out.
AB: Oh, yes-and it was such a big relief. Wrestling was the reason why I hadn't come out a lot earlier. I'm not blaming wrestling-I had this fear of the unknown, and I was putting pressure on myself. I was very happy and relieved that nobody cared. Plus, I'm well-liked, so it made my friendships stronger because I wasn't hiding anything.
WCT: Are you comfortable with the label "role model?"
AB: Yes. When I sit down and think about it, it's crazy. I just want to affect someone's life positively because I've had people help me, whether directly or indirectly, with issues that were sports-related or personal. I never thought I'd help people on this grand level-especially after I first came out and I got all these messages from all over the world.
WCT: And it's not just the support where you felt relief in coming out. It was also in the act itself, right?
AB: Oh, yeah. I was tired of dodging conversations, and I was dating Michael [Pavano], who is an absolutely amazing person. It was unfair to him once we entered that relationship. I told him I wouldn't be in the closet forever, but I had to censor certain things-like I couldn't put photos of us together on social media. I know it killed him, but he cared about me enough to go through that time period. You should never ask someone to have a relationship under those circumstances, but I give him a ton of credit for sticking with me.
WCT: My last question has nothing to do with sexuality. [Bowens laughs.] Pro wrestler Nikki Bella is competing on Dancing with the Stars. Would you ever try that if asked?
AB: That's interesting, because I was asked that the other day. I am a horrible dancer! [Laughs] I have zero rhythm-but I would try it. It'd be ugly for the first week or two, though. [Laughs] However, I am a quick study.

Subject: Bisexuality; Wrestling; Domestic violence; Sports injuries

People: Benoit, Chris

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Wrestler Anthony Bowens: Talking about sport, coming out as bi

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 33

Issue: 3

Pages: 26

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2017

Publication date: Oct 4, 2017

Section: PRO SPORTS

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

ProQuest document ID: 1950403393

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wrestler-anthony-bowens-talking-about-sport/docview/1950403393/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 4, 2017

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Judge Nancy Katz reflects on career

Author: Simonette, Matt

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/judge-nancy-katz-reflects-on-career/docview/1950387404/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Judge Nancy Katz-recently retired from the Cook County Circuit Court and the first openly lesbian judge there-said that judges have an important role to play in bringing about social change. Among her community-service accomplishments were posts on the board of the Lesbian and Gay Bar Association of Chicago, the former Chicago Commission on Human Relations' Advisory Council on Gay and Lesbian Issues, and Cook County Hospital's Women and Children with AIDS Project advisory board. In June 2017, she was awarded the Community Leadership Award by Illinois State Bar Association's standing committee on sexual orientation and gender identity.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=3&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2017-10-04&amp;atitle=Judge+Nancy+Katz+reflects+on+career&amp;au=Simonette%2C+Matt&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=3&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2017-10-04&amp;atitle=Judge+Nancy+Katz+reflects+on+career&amp;au=Simonette%2C+Matt&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Judge Nancy Katz-recently retired from the Cook County Circuit Court and the first openly lesbian judge there-said that judges have an important role to play in bringing about social change.
"You certainly advance justice on a case-bycase approach, by making good, impartial decisions based on the law, facts and a compassionate approach to people," she explained. "One-by-one-by one, [judges] make a difference. But there are systemic issues in the law: how people access justice; how they interact with the court system; how they are listened to; and how interpreters are provided. Those affect people's access to justice."
Katz has had a storied career as an activist, lawyer and judge, with accomplishments not only in the realm of family-law, her professional specialty, but in LGBT-rights as well. Among her community-service accomplishments were posts on the board of the Lesbian and Gay Bar Association of Chicago, the former Chicago Commission on Human Relations' Advisory Council on Gay and Lesbian Issues, and Cook County Hospital's Women and Children with AIDS Project advisory board. In June 2017, she was awarded the Community Leadership Award by Illinois State Bar Association's standing committee on sexual orientation and gender identity. Katz was named to the Chicago Gay and Lesbian Hall of Fame-now the Chicago LGBT Hall of Fame-in 2000.
Though she stepped down from the bench, where she presided in the Cook County Circuit Court's domestic relations division, in July, Katz has shifted gears only slightly. She has gone to work for the JAMS Foundation, a nationwide organization providing mediation and arbitration services. She specializes in family-law cases.
"I've been really enjoying that," she said. "It's been a lot of fun to build a business that is so people-oriented."
Katz said that her background as a feminist and an activist really influenced her decision to focus on family law issues. "I saw the need for services for women who have been subjected to domestic violence," she added. "... In my teenage years and early-20s, we did a lot of work on domestic violence, such as Take Back the Night [marches]. I worked with some people that started one of the first domestic-violence shelters for women and [another] woman who had a domestic-violence legal clinic. It was kind of natural that I would gravitate to that area as I became a lawyer and as a judge, where I ended up in the domestic relations division, [and] where we dealt with all kinds of issues."
She credits colleagues-especially Judge Sebastian Patti and former Judge Tom Chiola, the first openly gay men on the Cook County bench- with "being a wonderful source of support" while she was a judge.
"I was surprised at how collegial [most of] the judges were," she recalled. "They were very welcoming-much more than I expected. I knew that being out was a very important thing. For them, it 'normalized' gay people in a way that they hadn't experienced before. They were very receptive to the message, and very open. The task was not as hard as it could have been. From the top down, there was a very concerted effort to be a very diverse and welcoming bench."
When Katz began her work on the bench in 1999, she was assigned to a marriage court. She told a colleague how ironic it was that she had the power to join people in matrimony, but could not, at the time, be legally married herself. Her colleagues "all looked at me, with their eyes wide open. One of them said, 'Do you want me to take your shift?' I think it opened their eyes."
There are now multiple openly LGBT judges, Katz noted. "It has really come a long way. [The judiciary] went from being 'out in the wilderness' to being a good home for LGBTQ lawyers."
She won't miss the sense of separation that comes from being a judge, however.
"You can't do some of the activist work that you did previously, because of the ethics rules that govern judges," Katz explained. "There's a certain amount of isolation that goes with the territory. ... I'm not complaining, because there's other benefits that go along with it. Chief among them is, you get to go to work every day and do justice. There's nothing like it."

Subject: Human relations; Domestic violence; Activists; Attorneys; Gays & lesbians

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Judge Nancy Katz reflects on career

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 33

Issue: 3

Pages: 10

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2017

Publication date: Oct 4, 2017

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 1950387404

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/judge-nancy-katz-reflects-on-career/docview/1950387404/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 4, 2017

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Housing-rights activists protest Cappleman's office

Author: Simonette, Matt

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/housing-rights-activists-protest-capplemans/docview/1947363656/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: A statement released by Cappleman's office said that, "Alderman Cappleman and the city's Department of Family and Support Seivices have been taking action to help those who had been living beneath the Wilson and Lawience viaducts access food, shelteľ, mental health seivices, addiction treatment and medical care." Aldeiman Cappleman and the city's Department of Family and Support Services have been taking action to help those who had been living beneath the Wilson and Lawrence viaducts access food, shelter, mental health services, addiction treatment and medical care. Recent actions have included: - Hosting a Sept. 8 event next to the viaducts where those living below the viaducts were connected with multiple providers, including emergency shelters, mental health and substance abuse treatment centers and medical care; - DFSS visits to the viaduct three times a week for the past 18 months; - Providing placement in shelters including Northside, Cornerstone and Pacific Garden Mission; - Locating permanent housing for 53 people, bridge housing-an intermediate step to permanent housing, but not a shelter-for 21 people, and shelter for five people in the past 18 months.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=2&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=4&amp;date=2017-09-27&amp;atitle=Housing-rights+activists+protest+Cappleman%27s+office&amp;au=Simonette%2C+Matt&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=33&amp;issue=2&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=4&amp;date=2017-09-27&amp;atitle=Housing-rights+activists+protest+Cappleman%27s+office&amp;au=Simonette%2C+Matt&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Several dozen advocates for the homeless gathered Sept. 25 at the Uptown offices of 46th Waid Ald. James Cappleman.
The protester came to denounce the treatment of some 75 individuals who, until the week of Sept. 18, had been residing beneath the viaducts
at Lake Shore Drive and Lawrence and Wilson avenues. Those perons weie subsequently evicted from additional sites over the coure of the following week.
Accoiding to the city, the evictions took place because of needed bridge repair, but bicycle lanes are going in undei the viaducts, eliminating any possibility of future encampments there. Seveial member of the LGBT community have been active in woik aiound the issue, among them Andy Thayei of Tent City Oiganizeis, who led the protest. Activists accuse Cappleman, who is gay, of only paying lip semce to the Uptown homelessness issue and maintain that he is in league with developer looking to gentrify the neighborhood.
Shortly after the protest began, Cappleman emeiged fiom his office and asked if anyone had questions. Thayei replied that they had no interest in convering because, "We aie sick of yom lies." The crowd began chanting, "Results, not woids," and Cappleman returned to his office. A few peisons went in to speak with him, but people said that at some point the office dooi was locked.
A statement released by Cappleman's office said that, "Alderman Cappleman and the city's Department of Family and Support Seivices have been taking action to help those who had been living beneath the Wilson and Lawience viaducts access food, shelteľ, mental health seivices, addiction treatment and medical care." [The statement is included in its entirety below]. Among those actions mentioned in the aldeiman's statement weie connecting residents to shelter, among them one activists have said is not welcoming foi LGBT peisons.
Supporter of the Tent City residents are demanding that a peimanent space foi residents to pitch there tents now be provided. Thayeľ maintained that the Tent City residents weie taigeted because of theii high visibility undei the viaduct. The protest occuned because, "We're bringing that visibility back."
Speaking in the direction of Cappleman's office, Thayer warned, "This is going to rag you all the way to re-election day. Remember what happened to [Cook County State's Attorney] Anita Alvaiez [who was voted out of office]."
Abdul Jones, a foimer resident undei one of the viaducts, spoke about his struggle to find housing. He also laid much of the blame on the aiea's housing problems at the feet of Mayor Rahm Emanuel, maintaining that the city has not released funds specifically marked for housing assistance.
"They've got the money," Jones said. "We're one of the iichest countries in the woild."
Thayei closed by urging supporter to keep up the pressure, saying that the city had taken notice, even if they hadn't ieached a desiied iesult. "The only reason the City of Chicago went through the motions was because of people like you."
Note: Aid. James Cappleman's office released the following statement to media outlets on Sept. 25:
Aldeiman Cappleman and the city's Department of Family and Support Services have been taking action to help those who had been living beneath the Wilson and Lawrence viaducts access food, shelter, mental health services, addiction treatment and medical care.
Recent actions have included:
- Hosting a Sept. 8 event next to the viaducts where those living below the viaducts were connected with multiple providers, including emergency shelters, mental health and substance abuse treatment centers and medical care;
- DFSS visits to the viaduct three times a week for the past 18 months;
- Providing placement in shelters including Northside, Cornerstone and Pacific Garden Mission;
- Locating permanent housing for 53 people, bridge housing-an intermediate step to permanent housing, but not a shelter-for 21 people, and shelter for five people in the past 18 months.
Alderman Cappleman also continually works to increase the amount of affordable housing and provide shelter to those in need in the ward and in the city of Chicago.
His efforts have included:
- Leading the push for a Housing First pilot program that will serve as a model for other city programs;
- Requiring a 4 percent surcharge on all Airbnb rentals in the city to assist the city's homeless;
- Receiving grant funding for Inspiration Corp. to provide case management to those living at the Wilson Men's Hotel;
- Preserving affordable housing units in the ward, which has the highest number of government-subsidized affordable housing units in the entire city;
- Adding more affordable housing units in the ward including: 45 Chicago Housing Authority units and 22 Low Income Housing Trust Fund units (for individuals making 0-30% of the AMI).
- Ensuring that when the R.E.S.T. shelters closed, providers such as Sarah's Circle and Northside Housing & Support Services took over the shelters, resulting in an increase in the number of beds and in the quality of care.
- Approving a zoning change and government funding for a new Sarah's Circle facility in Uptown, which will provide new permanent housing for 38 homeless women and a new facility for their existing 50-bed women's shelter.
- Approving construction of a new shelter in the 46th Ward, Apna Ghar, which is the only domestic violence shelter in the Midwest dedicated to the needs of immigrant women.
Although the 46th Ward ranks No. 1 with the most government-subsidized affordable housing in the city of Chicago, more subsidized housing is needed for people experiencing homelessness. All leaders need to step up to increase the amount of affordable housing for the most vulnerable residents of our city. All Chicagoans should have access to safe housing.

Subject: Mental health; Activists; Homeless people; Substance abuse treatment; Affordable housing

Business indexing term: Subject: Affordable housing

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Emanuel, Rahm

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Housing-rights activists protest Cappleman's office

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 33

Issue: 2

Pages: 4,8

Number of pages: 2

Publication year: 2017

Publication date: Sep 27, 2017

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1947363656

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/housing-rights-activists-protest-capplemans/docview/1947363656/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Sep 27, 2017

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Legal specialist talks about aspects of criminal-justice system

Author: Tanaschuk, Emagin

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/legal-specialist-talks-about-aspects-criminal/docview/1939705727/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Throughout college I volunteered at different sexual assault, domestic violence and immigration agencies. [...]much-about two thirds of my current case load is around domestic-violence and sexual-assault cases, and the other third is everything else. There is also a huge need for domesticiolence and sexual-assault support in the queer community because stigmas and fear make these topics unspeakable, when in fact, these issues are just as prevalent among LGBT people.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=51&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2017-09-06&amp;atitle=Legal+specialist+talks+about+aspects+of+criminal-justice+system&amp;au=Tanaschuk%2C+Emagin&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=51&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2017-09-06&amp;atitle=Legal+specialist+talks+about+aspects+of+criminal-justice+system&amp;au=Tanaschuk%2C+Emagin&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Angelica D'Souza (a Windy City Times 30 Under 30 honoree this year) is the only LGBT and hatecrime victim witness specialist at the Cook County state's attorney's office.
She works with LGBT individuals as well as other people who are affected by hate crimes. She often accompanies victims to court hearings, provides resources for them, and serves as a support system.
Windy City Times: What led you to this career?
Angelica D'Souza: Actually, my educational background was not very related to social science; rather, it was more humanities-based. But something that always interested me was genderbased violence work. Throughout college I volunteered at different sexual assault, domestic violence and immigration agencies. I was drawn to the acute immediate support that folks need after an incident, and also the prevention piece.
WCT: Is there any overlap between the domestic violence work you have done previously and the work you are involved in now?
AD: So much-about two thirds of my current case load is around domestic-violence and sexual-assault cases, and the other third is everything else. There is also a huge need for domesticiolence and sexual-assault support in the queer community because stigmas and fear make these topics unspeakable, when in fact, these issues are just as prevalent among LGBT people. But more generally speaking, domestic violence plagues so many other communities as well, because of the stigma surrounding it.
People still think of it is an "at home" problem and if you are already fighting discrimination, there can be worry about what happens to a demographic's credibility if word gets out about certain crimes.
WCT: What is most challenging about your job?
AD: I will start with the challenging: I am not good with confrontation or conflict, but sometimes it is required, and when you are dealing with trauma, it is important to not be afraid to sit in conflict in order to keep people safe emotionally and physically. The other challenge is that it can be hard to see past the concentration of negativity and negative situations that we deal with each day. But I try to remember how vibrant this city and county really is despite some negative situations.
WCT: What about it comes easy?
AD: It is going to sound really corny, but sitting with someone and holding their shit with them-helping them hold what is hurting them. I think I am lucky enough to be someone who has a lot of emotional space to help people and have compassion for them, so that part is never hard.
WCT: What about your job is rewarding?
AD: Helping somebody find justice is rewarding. Now, don't get me wrong, most people do not find justice in the criminal justice system, but it can happen in lots of other ways. Bearing witness to people find their own justice in however it happens is the reason I do what I do.
WCT: How can the legal system change to better support LGBT individuals?
AD: Our criminal justice system rarely addresses the root of a problem. For example, prosecuting young queer kids because they're housing insecure and are doing what they need to do to get by is not justice. Recognizing that certain crimes are crimes of poverty is a good step. Sentencing someone to a felony for stealing something when they are trying to get by isn't helping anybody.
WCT: What does the future hold for you?
AD: I would eventually like to do more community engagement and education work that I am doing now. I want to keep making the system that we have work better and address the needs that my community has.
WCT: Are there any striking issues with the way the Cook County justice system operates in regards to minority groups?
AD: The system fundamentally is not a recognition of humanity-it's not designed that way. In criminal law, it's the state versus a person. It is an inherently dehumanizing process for everyone involved.
WCT: How does it dehumanize victims?
AD: Something as basic as referring to someone by the wrong pronouns boils down to not seeing someone's humanity. You shouldn't have to fight to be treated like a person.

Subject: Domestic violence; Sex crimes; Criminal law

Location: Cook County Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Legal specialist talks about aspects of criminal-justice system

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 51

Pages: 10

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2017

Publication date: Sep 6, 2017

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

ProQuest document ID: 1939705727

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/legal-specialist-talks-about-aspects-criminal/docview/1939705727/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Sep 6, 2017

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Sidetrack’s OUTspoken! Series: July’s featured storytellers

Author: Featured database: GenderWatch

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sidetrack-s-outspoken-series-july-featured/docview/1921372973/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Dati sits on the board of directors for Break The Silence Foundation, a local domestic violence organization. Center on Halsted, Teach Antibullying, Inc., Dreamcatchers for Abused Children, The National Association of Adult Survivors of Child Abuse and RAINN. - In the US, he has been politically active with ACT-UP, Queer Nation, The Legacy Project and the American Federation of Teachers. Since 1998, he has been at Chicago State University, a university committed to social justice,...

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=42&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=28&amp;date=2017-07-05&amp;atitle=Sidetrack%E2%80%99s+OUTspoken%21+Series%3A+July%E2%80%99s+featured+storytellers&amp;au=&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=42&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=28&amp;date=2017-07-05&amp;atitle=Sidetrack%E2%80%99s+OUTspoken%21+Series%3A+July%E2%80%99s+featured+storytellers&amp;au=&amp;id=doi:

Full text: -Sonal Aggarwal is a world traveling performer. Raised in the southwest suburbs of Chicago, she left the country after college to travel the world. In March of 2015 while living in India as an artist and emcee, her life took a dramatic turn with a motorcycle accident that led her back to Chicago. During her rehabilitation, she realized that she was meant to do stand up comedy. Now, her infectious energy is on stage all over Chicago.
-Mark Balakoohi was born alongside his twin brother in a refugee camp in Austria to a Polish Catholic mother and Iranian Muslim father. He immigrated to the US as a baby and has grown up in Chicago and the area. Mark graduated from UIC with a degree in business and spent his 20s married and climbing the corporate ladder. Now, in his 30s, Mark downsized to a small Chicago marketing company.
-Patrick Dati is an advocate and speaker for several organizations devoted to promoting LGBTQ rights and preventing childhood abuse and bullying. Dati sits on the board of directors for Break The Silence Foundation, a local domestic violence organization. He also is a national public speaker for The Elite Speakers Bureau in addition to these organizations: Center on Halsted, Teach Antibullying, Inc., Dreamcatchers for Abused Children, The National Association of Adult Survivors of Child Abuse and RAINN.
-Erin Diamond is a writer and comedian. She is a frequent contributor to The Paper Machete at The Green Mill. Erin also co-produces The Kiki, a Queer comedy variety show at The Laugh Factory. The Kiki will also take up a summer residency at Transistor in Andersonville beginning July. She is a devoted fan of the band Third Eye Blind.
-The Dutchman was born in this town and has lived here all his life. He was an out bisexual in high school and people just thought he was confused. Ever since he has been very strident about bisexual visibility. He is a leatherman, a family man (with three children), a Latin Mass Catholic and a communist.
-Gabriel Gomez is a Chicago native and significantly, a mutt, who has lived abroad and traveled widely. In the US, he has been politically active with ACT-UP, Queer Nation, The Legacy Project and the American Federation of Teachers. Since 1998, he has been at Chicago State University, a university committed to social justice, where he is a professor in Information Studies.
-Coya Paz is a writer, director and lip gloss connoisseur. She is the Artistic Director of Free Street Theater, a cofounder of the Proyecto Latina collective, and served as the founding co-Artistic Director of Teatro Luna for nine years. Coya is an Associate Professor at The Theatre School at DePaul University and holds a PhD in Performance Studies from Northwestern University.

Subject: Artistic directors

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US; Austria; India

Company / organization: Name: Green Mill; NAICS: 722410; Name: Third Eye Blind; NAICS: 711130; Name: American Federation of Teachers; NAICS: 813930; Name: Chicago State University; NAICS: 611310

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Sidetrack’s OUTspoken! Series: July’s featured storytellers

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 42

Pages: 28

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2017

Publication date: Jul 5, 2017

Section: the DISH

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 1921372973

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sidetrack-s-outspoken-series-july-featured/docview/1921372973/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jul 5, 2017

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

18TH ANNUAL THIRTY UNDER 30 HONORS

Author: Featured database: GenderWatch

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/18th-annual-thirty-under-30-honors/docview/1915869818/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [...]while at Adler University she worked with area PFLAG groups to expand their reach into the South Side of Chicago, and into black and brown communities. Since graduating from DePaul University in 2011, she has mentored LGBT students as an alumna. Carsen, a certified personal trainer and student at DePaul University, consulted with our program's medical and behavioral health teams as he developed BeStrong, a 10-session group in which participants develop personal wellness goals, increase their knowledge of cardiovascular and weight-training techniques, improve nutrition practices, and find peer support. A proud Chicago native, Derrick's social justice and community engagement efforts took shape during high school at Payton College Prep, where they led both the Queer-Straight Alliance and a nationally competitive policy debate team. Derrick went on to forge careers in media and communications, with reporting, commentary and news analysis that has appeared at various outlets, including NBC News, Vox, Quartz, The Root and (yes) Windy City Times. Derrick has an MSJ from the Medill School of Journalism and currently works in corporate communications for a Fortune 100 company, while pursuing creative writing projects and drafting a memoir. BEA CORDELIA Bea Cordelia, 24, is an award-winning, Chicago-bred writer, filmmaker, performance artist, actor, producer, educator and activist whose work uplifts and reimagines the narratives of transgender people. Liz also co-hosts Sappho's Salon, a monthly performance series at Women and Children First Bookstore for women, trans and non-binary artists, and has told stories herself at Outspoken, Loose Chicks and Fillet of Solo, among...

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=40&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=55&amp;date=2017-06-21&amp;atitle=18TH+ANNUAL+THIRTY+UNDER+30+HONORS&amp;au=&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=40&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=55&amp;date=2017-06-21&amp;atitle=18TH+ANNUAL+THIRTY+UNDER+30+HONORS&amp;au=&amp;id=doi:

Full text: ASHLEY BRAZIL
Ashley Brazil, 28, is the senior career specialist at Chicago House, where she works with those affected by HIV, TGNC people and those with disabilities to enhance their economic self-sufficiency and improve their health outcomes.
Ashley is an active leader in the LGBT community. Her involvement began volunteering with Affinity Community Services, an organization centered on issues affecting Black queer women, supporting their programming and becoming an Affinity Leadership Scholar in 2012. She then went on to support the Center on Halsted in her role as an internship coordinator at Adler University. Also while at Adler University she worked with area PFLAG groups to expand their reach into the South Side of Chicago, and into black and brown communities. Since graduating from DePaul University in 2011, she has mentored LGBT students as an alumna.
Did you know? Ashley writes for community anthologies and has been included in Voices de Queer Femmes, a book being released this year.
LISSETTE CASTILLO VIZCARRA
Lissette Castillo Vizcarra, 25, is a member of Organized Communities Against Deportations, as well as a paralegal/organizer with PASOWest Suburban Action Project. She has been a part of efforts to pass model sanctuary city ordinances in Berwyn and Oak Park, ending collaboration between those suburbs and ICE.
Prior to joining PASO, Lissette also worked with faith communities seeking to become immigrant-welcoming and sanctuary-offering congregations. Lissette came to Chicago for college and graduated from the University of Chicago in 2014. She is originally from the U.S.-Mexico bordertown of Brownsville, Texas.
Did you know? She dances best in cowboy boots and most days can likely be found at the Jumping Bean Cafe. Also, she just turned 25 on June 20.
NICKECIA "NICK" ALDER
Nickecia "Nick" Alder is the founder and editor-in-chief of Black Girl Fly Magazine as well as co-founder of Party Noire.
She is a doctoral candidate and researcher, digital content creator and strategist, engineering online communities and digital stories that celebrate the complexities of Black women and girls. As a researcher, she interrogates the intersections of media representation of Black women and racial and gender identity.
Nick is a multifaceted creative with a passion for shaping brands through strong digital and social media storytelling especially for Black millennial women. Her background in community mental health and therapeutic practices adds to her toolbox for connecting with people both in physical and digital spaces.
Did you know? When she is not juggling all of the above, she is collecting sneakers, capturing photographs or tweeting her favorite GIFs.
KIRSTIN BROCKENBOROUGH
Kirstin Brockenborough, 24, is a visual storyteller committed to reframing conversations of Black and brown people's accessibility to public health resources. The Virginia native utilizes digital storytelling as an educational tool to promote sex positivity as well as illuminate laws that target and criminalize Black people across identity spectrums.
Following her graduation from Columbia College Chicago, Kirstin accepted a position within the AIDS Foundation of Chicago's policy and advocacy team. Her work as the policy and legislative specialist has empowered her to create and produce podcast programming for the organization's local and nationally recognized projects such as the Midwest HIV Prevention Pregnancy Planning Initiative (MHPPPI), SpeakUP and Protect Our Care - Illinois.
Kirstin is also tied with the Black Youth Project 100 as a digital organizer. She credits the organization as an influence to her work within the public health sector, contextualizing critical theory to Chicago's reality.
Did you know? Kirstin is the founder and currently an active member of the "Whisper Bitches" club.
CARSEN CASICA
Carsen Casıca has developed BeStrong, an innovative physical wellness program for trans/gender-diverse (T/ GD) youth and young adults ages 14-25.
T/GD youth have limited gym and locker-room spaces in which they are welcomed. For those on gender-affirming hormone therapy, it may be difficult to identify a personal trainer who is knowledgeable, supportive, and effective in helping them reach physical wellness goals.
Carsen, a certified personal trainer and student at DePaul University, consulted with our program's medical and behavioral health teams as he developed BeStrong, a 10-session group in which participants develop personal wellness goals, increase their knowledge of cardiovascular and weight-training techniques, improve nutrition practices, and find peer support. The second session began June 17.
Did you know? Carsen is a personal trainer at a fitness facility named for Ray Meyer, who coached men's basketball for 42 years at DePaul University, racking up 724 wins.
DERRICK CLIFTON
Derrick Clifton, 28, is an award-winning writer and speaker whose work often examines the intersections of identity, culture and social issues. A proud Chicago native, Derrick's social justice and community engagement efforts took shape during high school at Payton College Prep, where they led both the Queer-Straight Alliance and a nationally competitive policy debate team. Derrick attended Northwestern University as a Point Foundation Scholar and was named a "Senior to Watch" in 2012 based on their campus journalism and nonprofit work.
Derrick went on to forge careers in media and communications, with reporting, commentary and news analysis that has appeared at various outlets, including NBC News, Vox, Quartz, The Root and (yes) Windy City Times. Their writing on social issues in Chicago earned the 2016 National Association of Black Journalists Award for Newspaper Commentary, as well as a 2017 Peter Lisagor Award from the Society of Professional Journalists - Chicago. Derrick has an MSJ from the Medill School of Journalism and currently works in corporate communications for a Fortune 100 company, while pursuing creative writing projects and drafting a memoir.
Did you know? Derrick took longer than most toddlers to start talking and their first word was "Jesus." And so began a journey toward excessive talking detentions in grade school and a mouth that could send censors into a frenzy.
BEA CORDELIA
Bea Cordelia, 24, is an award-winning, Chicago-bred writer, filmmaker, performance artist, actor, producer, educator and activist whose work uplifts and reimagines the narratives of transgender people. Her "life-changing" solo show Chasing Blue featured in Steppenwolf Theatre's LookOut performance series in February, and last summer she made headlines for her lawsuit against the City of Chicago regarding its sexist, transphobic ordinance forbidding the exposure of breasts in establishments with liquor licenses.
Did you know? She is currently working on the forthcoming web series The T with co-creator Daniel Kyri and distributor Open TV.
SHEA COULEE
Shea Coulee, 28, is quickly becoming a drag legend with only six years under his belt as of July 2017. Originally from Warsaw, Indiana, Jaren Shea Merrell went to Columbia College studying costume design.
After watching RuPaul's Drag Race on TV, Shea was inspired to start performing in drag and auditioned for five years finally landing on the ninth season of the hit show. Shea slayed the competition week after week and is currently a final contestant.
Experience in the Windy City has paid off with Queen! events at Smart Bar and Neverland circuit parties taking place around Chicago. Talented at lip-synching, Shea now performs at venues across the globe for millions of fans.
Coulee continues to build a brand at SheaCoulee.com. The future looks bright with makeup tutorials on YouTube, creating, as well as starring, in an indie movie Lipstick City with Chicago's LGBT community, and a fierce new dance track called "Cocky" featuring Lila Star and The Vixen, and produced by Jeremiah Meece.
Did you know? Shea means "beautiful boy" in Swahili.
VITA E.
Vita E. (they/she), 28, is a Black trans femmepoet, percussionist, activist, disability advocate and educator from Cleveland, Ohio. Their YouTube channel and brand, TWOC Poetry, seeks to create more realistic representation of the identities related to and outside Vita's ~ life as a NeuroDivergent Black trans femme. She's currently a proud member of the Chicago Latinx punk band Cabrona, the Chicago BTGNC Collective, and the Chicago Chapter of Black Lives Matter. Their response track to Janelle Monae, "Hell Y'all Ain't Talmbout," was listed by The Source as one of the "10 Songs Soundtracking the Black Lives Matter Movement."
Did you know? She's the youngest of 13, and shares a birthday with their twin brother and father.
ANTONIO ELIZONDO
Antonio Elizondo, 24, is an organizer with Vives Q and the Center for Disease Control (CDC) Coordinator at Howard Brown Health Center.
His activism started as a volunteer at Mujeres Latinas en Accion in Pilsen. In 2013 Antonio co-founded Vives Q, an intergenerational Latinx LGBTQ series that highlights the contributions of LGBTQ trailblazers. For the past four years, Vives Q has been an innovative community hub and platform for the Latinx LGBTQ community.
In 2014 he was one of 25 people to be part of #SpeakOutHIV, a national campaign by Greater Than AIDS to confront the silence and stigma that still too often surrounds HIV/AIDS. In 2015 he began his position between the Center on Halsted and TPAN coordinating a youth outreach program that consisted of weekend retreats with built in messages of self confidence and its relation to one's health. In 2016, he was invited by the Center for Disease Control (CDC) to participate in a new social marketing campaign to promote HIV testing among his peer group. In 2017 he continues his work with Howard Brown Health Center coordinating a CDC grant that provides HIV/STI screenings city wide.
Did you know? Antonio loves Rihanna so much he is able to tell you the story of her upbringing to the business mogul she has become today.
ANGELICA D'SOUZA
Angelica D'Souza (she/her), 24, grew up in Canada and moved to Chicago to study at Loyola University, graduating with a BA honors in history.
She is a proud multiethnic, multilingual, binational queer femme and the only child of two immigrant feminist scientists. The complexity of occupying the spaces in between-of living in the hyphen-has called her to seek to build spaces where people from diverse communities can find common ground.
Currently, Angie serves as the LGBTQ and hate crime victim specialist for the Cook County state's attorney's office, where she spends most of her time providing advocacy and support to folks coming into contact with the criminal legal system as victims of a crime.
As part of her work, she is actively involved in community engagement efforts in diverse communities throughout Cook County. Previously, she has worked throughout the Chicagoland area in domestic violence and sexual assault services, and in efforts to eliminate discrimination and bias-motivated violence.
When she's not working, you can find Angie watching Netflix and cuddling with her rescue cat, at a local watering hole with her pals, or exploring the city with her superrad partner.
Did you know? Angie is a major foodie and loves to try out new recipes on her friends, especially when she can combine different flavors into the ultimate fusion dish.
JESSIE FUENTES
Jessie Fuentes (she, her, hers), 27, is an active organizer in the Humboldt Park community. Fuentes is a Puerto Rican lesbian that strives to create a more just world for the LGBTQ and Puerto Rican Community. Jessie Fuentes is a program director of four youth initiatives with the Puerto Rican Cultural Center. Jessie Fuentes also helps organize the Puerto Rican LGBTQ contingent for the Pride Parade, assists annually to coordinate Vida/SIDA's Coronation (crowing our transgender queen for the Puerto Rican Parade), and provides healthy alternatives to LGBTQ youth that are experiencing discrimination in their homes and community. Jessie believes in the independence of Puerto Rico and is the coordinator of National Boricua Human Rights Network - the campaign to free the last Puerto Rican political prisoner, Oscar Lopez Rivera.
Did you know? Jessie is a fitness addict. She works out six times a week and sometimes twice a day!
ANTONIO GUTIERREZ
Antonio Gutierrez, 28, is a queer gender non-conforming undocumented immigrant from Guadalajara, Mexico. Antonio has lived in Chicago for more than 16 years after immigrating to the United States to reunite with family members. Antonio is a graduate from the Illinois Institute of Technology with a Bachelor's of Architecture (B.Arch.).
After graduating in 2012, Antonio joined the immigrant-rights movement as an organizer with the Immigrant Youth Justice League (IYJL), an undocumentedled organization. Antonio has engaged in and remains active in collective organizing of community events such as fundraising programs, mass marches, national retreats, city-wide ordinance campaigns and civil disobediences.
Antonio is one of the co-founders of the Autonomous Tenants Union (ATU), an all-volunteer anti-displacement organization in the City of Chicago. Antonio is a member of the steering committee of Organized Communities Against Deportation (OCAD), an undocumented-led group that fights deportations and criminalization of Black, brown and immigrant communities in Chicago. Antonio is the Director of Operations for Community Activism Law Alliance, a social justice legal organization that promotes lawyers and communities working together for social change.
Did you know? Antonio is also a steering board member of the National Right to the City Alliance.
BECCA HOFRICHTER
Becca Hofrichter, 28, is a licensed clinical social worker, and has been working as an adult ally with youth experiencing unstable housing since 2010.
Beginning her role as a youth ally with Teen Living Programs, Becca at some point worked in almost every program with the agency, but found a real calling to street and community based outreach. Most recently, Becca joined Center on Halsted in October 2015 to support the design and implementation of the Youth Housing Initiative, which currently offers 10 youth ages 18-25 apartment style housing. As a Queer, femme-identified clinician; Becca hopes to pursue more clinically focused work in her future while still approaching her work from a place of authenticity, advocacy, and action.
Outside of work, Becca is learning American Sign Language, loves baking and gardening, is an avid record collector, and makes jewelry.
Did you know? Becca collects oddities such as taxidermy, bones and teeth.
MAHDIA LYNN
Mahdia Lynn (she, her, hers), 29, is the director of Masjid al-Rabia-a new women centered, LGBTQIA+-affirming mosque in Chicago. A writer, educator and organizer, Mahdia is a prolific advocate for LGBTQIA+ Muslims on a local and international level. As a disabled bisexual Muslim woman of trans experience, Mahdia can also be found striving every day towards disability power, economic and racial justice, prison abolition and trans liberation.
Did you know? Mahdia is currently one of three transgender women in the world (and the only one in the western hemisphere) to lead a mosque.
JUSTIN KOZIATEK
Justin Koziatek, 29, is a non-profit leader who lends a spirit of energy, enthusiasm, creativity and compassion to his role as corporate and volunteer engagement specialist at the AIDS Foundation of Chicago.
Born in Michigan, Justin obtained two bachelor degrees in nutritional science and food science from Michigan State University, then started his career in the quality control areas of the food and pharmaceutical industries. As fate would have it, his world got shaken up in a fabulous way.
Justin made the move to Chicago and was ready to embrace his authentic self. He came out publicly at the age of 25, and his approach to career and community coalesced around LGBTQ rights soon after moving. Before being welcomed warmly to the AIDS Foundation of Chicago staff, he had immersed his personal time in Chicago's Human Rights Campaign as steering committee co-chair, volunteer engagement co-chair and gala volunteer coordinator since phone banking for Illinois marriage equality in 2013. Simultaneously, for over three years, he has held leadership positions as race co-director, president and board member with Proud To Run. He maintains focus on creating meaningful change.
Did you know? Justin loves to tap dance. Starting at the ripe old age of 4, he practiced until the age of 14, stopping due to a fear of being bullied. The good news is that he has picked it back up and has been taking classes at Second City Training Center. Look out, Gene Kelly!
LATONYA MALEY
Latonya Maley, 29, was born in Cincinnati, Ohio. She is the middle of four daughters raised in an unintentionally feminist home by a strong, sensitive, intimidating mother and an artistic, calm and grounding father. She attended public Montessori schools from kindergarten to 12th grade and was class president. Her experience with Montessori public school educators taught her the value of questioning everything, consentual hugs, working with animals and community meetings.
After a brief internship at the CDC in Atlanta, she moved to Chicago in 2010 and earned a Master's in public health from UIC. During her studies Latonya worked with Chicago Public School students, teaching sex education, epidemiology and facilitating public health clubs. In 2011, she was awarded the Bevier Global Health Fellowship that supported her field study in community based HIV prevention in rural Ghana. After returning to the States, Latonya focused on community-based public health HIV/STI interventions centering Black, Latinx and LGBTQ populations.
She has continued to further her practice by rising through Howard Brown from part-time research assistant to her current role as director of the Broadway Youth Center (BYC). Leading youth services at Howard Brown is the perfect polyamorous marriage of her commitments to social justice, health equity, emotional growth and fun! If there is one thing you can do to support Tonya in her next steps, please ask her when she will get the BYC podcast up and running!
Did you know? Latonya is an Aquarius, a secretive sci-fi/fantasy writer, righteously vegan and is a parent crew of rescue cats and a dog.
H. MELT
H. Melt is a poet and artist whose work proudly documents Chicago's queer and trans communities. Their writing has appeared many places including In These Times, The Offing, and Them, the first trans literary journal in the United States. They are the author of The Plural, The Blurring (Red Beard Press 2015) and editor of Subject to Change: Trans Poetry and Conversation (Sibling Rivalry Press 2017). H. Melt co-leads Queeriosity at Young Chicago Authors and works at Women and Children First, Chicago's feminist bookstore.
Did you know? Lambda Literary awarded them the Judith A. Markowitz Award for Emerging LGBTQ Writers in 2017.
ROBERTO MENDEZ
Roberto Mendez, 27, is a Latino Chicago native. He was born and raised in Logan Square/Humboldt Park, and was awarded a leadership scholarship that allowed him to attend Pomona College in Claremont, Califor- ROBERT nia, on a full ride. He returned to Chicago after graduating college, and began to explore the various ways to give back to the communities that shaped and guided him. He identified the intersections of race and sexual/gender identity as his passion and decided to contribute to the local Latino and LGBTQ communities of Chicago.
Roberto knew about 40 percent of homeless youth identify as LGBTQ. Therefore, in 2014, he began working as the information and referral specialist at La Casa Norte, a nonprofit agency that assists youth and families confronting homelessness. Recently he has transitioned roles and now is one of the development associates and primarily manages the volunteer program.
Around the same time, he was introduced to the Association of Latino/as Motivating Action, an organization that has been around for more than 26 years fighting for the rights of the Latino LGBTQ community by advocating for fairness and equality and affirming Latino LGBTQ culture. He joined its youth advisory board and has dedicated three years to providing safe spaces and advocating for Latino LGBTQ youth.
Did you know? Roberto's favorite author is James Baldwin, and he has read Giovanni's Room every year for the past six years.
TAYLOR NYS
Taylor Nys, 26, was born in Superior, Wisconsin, and has a cute dinosaur tattoo. They double majored in Gender, Women's, and Sexuality Studies and Sociology at Grinnell College located in a tiny, but beautiful, cornfield in Iowa. Taylor has been working and volunteering at social services since they were 18. Most recently, Taylor has worked at the AIDS Foundation of Chicago and Sarah's Circle.
Taylor's passion is creating supportive, nonjudgmental spaces to work collaboratively with people to define and make steps towards their goals. Taylor has helped create several working groups to address trans inclusion and safety in programming and staffing. They believe deeply in harm reduction and trauma-informed care, and have successfully advocated for the removal of a drug-free policy in a residential setting.
In their free time, Taylor spends a lot of time outside with trees and thinking about how cool root systems are. Taylor loves to volunteer with the Openlands program that provides community grants for tree planting across Chicago. They also love to cuddle their four cloud (cat) kids and make food with their partner, Marlo.
Did you know? Taylor had surgery on their tear duct as a kid and can breathe out of their eye socket. When they were on the swim team in high school, they had a hard time keeping on their goggles.
VINCE PAGÁN
Vince Pagán, 28, is a native Chicagoan, small business owner, activist, consultant and storyteller.
Since returning to his hometown after receiving a BA in drama from Ithaca College, he has worked as a teaching artist at organizations across the city, including The Goodman Theatre. In 2014, Vince started working with Morten Group, LLC, national Chicago-based consulting firm specializing in organizational development and racial equity workshops and action planning. Since beginning as a project assistant, Vince has grown to a consulting associate capacity and racial equity trainer. In 2016, Vince was a subcommittee co-chair for the National LGBTQ Task Force's Creating Change Conference, which was hosted in Chicago.
Vince is also a writer and a company member with 2nd Story, a Chicagobased storytelling company whose belief is that stories can change the world, where he is a storyteller and curator. He is also a company member with For Youth Inquiry, a project of Illinois Caucus for Adolescent Health. He is also a volunteer with the Illinois Safe Schools' Alliance, and is very excited to be joining them for Action Camp this year!
Last year, Vince made the decision to take his two passions-social justice and baking-and marry them together to establish Vince the Baker. Vince the Baker's future mission will focus around creating opportunities for (1) practical training for young people interested in pursuing entrepreneurship and/or baking; and (2) providing workshops and training for the public in baking skills and de-colonizing the food that we make, eat and share with each other. More information is at www. vincethebaker.com.
Did you know? Vince has seen every episode of the Great British Bake Show more than three times! His favorite contestant was Nadiya, who made him cry twice.
EILEEN PAGAN
Eileen Pagan, 26, is a boricua queer boi (with an i) from the south and uses they/them pronouns.
Eileen recently graduated from Adler University with a double masters degree in art therapy and mental health counseling and began their career at Center on Halsted with the youth department. During their time there, they created a Clinical Youth Training Program that aims to support LGBTQ youth experiencing homelessness. Rooted in Southern community organizing and social justice, Eileen recently made a giant leap to Atlanta and is currently working as an art therapist at the National Youth Advocate Program building LGBTQ competency in the foster-care system.
Did you know? When Eileen was younger, they auditioned for the show ALL THAT! Clearly, their career went a different path.
ILENE PALACIOS
Ilene Palacios is a contributing editor of Gozamos, a nonprofit Latinx online publication and media collective. She is also co-manager of community, art and culture space, Cultura in Pilsen.
In 2016, Ilene co-organized that year's edition of Vives Q, a Latinx LGBTQ series that featured six transgender trailblazers, and that autumn she joined local activists to travel to Standing Rock Prayer Camp in North Dakota to stand in solidarity with the water protectors fighting against the construction of the Dakota Access Pipeline. This year, she continues this work and organized Vives Q: Labs, a series of LGBTQ workshops and panels that focused on topics of immigration rights, bi+ inclusion, transgender rights and domestic violence.
Did you know? Ilene is a huge Harry Potter nerd and reads the book series every night before bed.
C. RUSSELL PRICE
C. Russell Price (they/them), 28, is an Appalachian genderqueer punk writer originally from Virginia but now lives on the north side of Chicago.
Their creative nonfiction and poetry has been published in Lunch, Story Club Magazine, Nimrod International, Court Green, The HIV Here and Now Project, and elsewhere. Their chapbook Tonight, We Fuck the Trailer Park Out of Each Other was released last summer by Sibling Rivalry Press and is under consideration for the 20th Annual Library of Virginia Literary Awards. They are a Literary Death Match Champion and a Lambda Fellow in Poetry. Russell teaches poetry at Northwestern University and with marginalized groups across Chicago.
Did you know? C. Russell Price plays acoustic rap/pop mashups on the piano. You can find them on a random Tuesday playing at Uncommon Ground's open mic.
AVI ROQUE
Avi Roque, 28, (they/them/theirs) grew up in San Francisco, received their B.A. in theater from California State University- Fullerton, and moved to Chicago to nurture their artistic spirit. Today, Avi is proud to say that they are a multidisciplinary artist and a Latinx gender non-conforming/trans individual who is constantly exploring transformation and discovery of self through devising new works and simultaneously breathing life into the words of others.
Avi loves theater and they recently appeared in Men On Boats at American Theater Company, under the direction of Will Davis. They have also worked with other Chicago theaters such as The Goodman, on several staged readings and a workshop production of Mother Road by Octavio Solis. You may have also seen them as Joan in a reading of Saint Joan, by George Bernard Shaw, at Writers Theatre in association with The Chicago Inclusion Project. Avi has also worked with a few storefront theaters and is a company member with Collaboraction, First Floor Theater, and Pride Films and Plays. They also served as a co-deviser on a piece titled [Transformation with The Living Canvas and Nothing Without A Company.
Avi is hoping that more stories are written to reflect those who are trans, genderqueer, non-binary, agender and gender non-conforming. They also would love to do more TV/film and were really excited to get cast as George, a trans person, in Matthew Aaron's Indie Comedy Landline that premiered this year.
Did you know? Avi loved (and still loves) musicals, including Disney's Newsies (the movie) and dressed up as a Newsie for Halloween in first grade.
JES SCHEINPFLUG
Jes Scheinpflug, MSW, 29, is an advocate for social and economic justice issues, including racial equity, LGBTQIA rights, fair and affordable housing, living wage, police/prison abolition and immigration reform. Jes values grassroots organizing with individuals and communities, with a belief that collaboration and solidarity are necessary for true [Revolution.
Jes is a returned Peace Corps volunteer who served in Togo during 2010-2012, and is an AmeriCorps alum. They received their BSW from Illinois State University and their MSW from Loyola University Chicago. Jes and the team at TransWorks just created Infinite Genders, a poetry book that shares experiences of trans, nonbinary and gender nonconforming individuals.
Jes is currently the development director for Nothing Without a Company, encouraging marginalized people to embrace their creativity and serves as on the Board of Directors for Expanding Lives, a nonprofit that empowers West African girls who are the first in their family to attend high school.
Did you know? Jes loves Chicago so much, they've lived in the city on and off for more than 20 years.
KEVIN STRWOER
Kevin Strowder, 29, ventured to Chicago in 2010 to live in community and serve with 13 unique individuals from around the country-all compelled to give a year of service in AmeriCorps. After building meaningful relationships with some resilient young people in the city, it became evident why supporting youth would take shape as a personal mission for Kevin. This led to completion of another year in service with Public Allies Chicago, an eye-opening encounter with a multitude of organizations in the nonprofit sector, and a newfound journey around navigating the mission-driven efforts in which Kevin strongly believes.
Over the next seven years, Kevin's work would span the spectrum of youth development, strategic partnership and civic engagement. As the current program manager for a thriving nonprofit designed to reshape the educational platform for young people here in the city, the plan is to dream bigger and push even harder.
Upon completion of a master's degree in organization development this fall, Kevin will resume the work which calls him to act on purpose, and unremittingly uplift the folks rarely offered a seat at the table.
Did you know? It is a life goal of Kevin's to someday appear on Wheel of Fortune as a dynamic pair with his mama. Also, she has always been his champion.
CAROLYN WAHLSKOG
Carolyn Wahlskog, 28, is a licensed clinical social worker for two youth organizations: 360 Youth Services and Youth Outlook.
For the last six years, Carolyn has worked with Youth Outlook, an agency that supports LGBTQ+ youth across DuPage, Kane, DeKalb, LaSalle, Whiteside and suburban Cook counties. She currently serves as the Community Education and Gender Programming Manager and supports trans and gender expansive youth ages 12 to 25 through the Transcend Drop-In Center.
Carolyn is also the senior program manager at 360 Youth Services' Transitional Housing Program for LGBTQ+ youth experiencing homelessness. In addition to these roles, Carolyn is the co-chair of the DuPage Community Network: Professionals Serving LGBTQ+ Youth, a volunteer with Transformative Justice Law Project's Name Change Mobilization and a member of the Linden Oaks Behavioral Health's Transgender Taskforce which is working to change the culture of the hospital to be safe and affirming to trans and gender-expansive patients.
Did you know? Carolyn has a passion for podcasts, donuts and her poodle, Ole. Also, her ultimate goal is to open a bagel shop as that was her favorite job in college. (Shout out to Bloomington Bagel Company!)
MILO VIELAND
Milo Vieland (he/him), 24, was born in New York City and raised in the Midwest. He graduated from Oberlin College with a B.A. in comparative American studies before moving to Chicago in 2014.
Milo was a volunteer at the Transformative Justice Law Project, working on the Hidden Expressions zine and helping organize Trans Day of Remembrance events. Milo also began volunteering at After Hours drop in night for trans and gender non-conforming people at Howard Brown Health, where he is now a medical case manager. He helps people navigate healthcare systems and advocates for healthcare access for trans people and people living with HIV. Milo presents on trans health advocacy and quality healthcare, most recently at the Midwest LGBTQ Health Symposium, the National Trans Health Conference in Atlanta, and the HRSA end+disparities Learning Exchange.
Did you know? Milo is an avid fan of Friday Night Lights- the book, the TV series, and the film.
RAE CHARDONNAY TAYLOR
Rae Chardonnay Taylor, 29, is a DJ and arts administrator with a background in events management and production.
She began DJing in 2010 and has since held residencies at venues in Chicago including Underground Wonder Bar and The Promontory and has circulated many private and public events to share her musical styling techniques. She is the founder of Black Eutopia, a series of popup programming intended to cultivate space for marginalized communities. She is also a co-founder of Party Noire and #trapyogaparty.
Rae utilizes her passion for activism to create community outreach and development strategies through event coordination. Her involvement in programs at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Stony Island Arts Bank, School of the Art Institute and Soho House Chicago have catapulted her career in unimaginable ways. She is dedicated to encouraging a life of open-minded learning and expression. musical explorations include house from around the world, soul, funk, disco, hiphop and R&B.
Did you know? Rae was recently noted as Chicago's Best DJ by the Chicago Reader-and she is dedicated to making backs sweat on the dance floor.
ALICIA WILLIAMS
Alicia Williams, 29, was born in Alexandria, Virginia, and raised in Richmond, Virginia.
Her summers as a child were spent on the South Side of Chicago, where her love for the city blossomed. In 2006, she relocated to the Chicago area with her mother. After graduating from Ithaca College with a degree in politics, she joined Americorps, where she worked with Chicago's immigrant community.
Since then she has solely worked with community-based organizations that provide direct service to Chicago's communities of color. Currently, she is working at Howard Brown Health in Englewood engaging residents in healthcare they deserve on their terms.
Did you know? Alicia spent a semester of college abroad in Buenos Aires, Argentina, where she worked with an organizing group of Black Argentines who were fighting to get their ethnic identity added to the census. They were successful one year after she returned to the United States.
CONNOR WILLIAMS
Connor Williams, 25, is a clinical social worker and therapist currently working as the behavioral health program coordinator for Care2Prevent-a comprehensive HIV/AIDS treatment and prevention program through the University of Chicago-and as a staff therapist for IntraSpectrum Counseling in the Andersonville neighborhood. After finishing his bachelor's degree in psychology from the University of Colorado, Connor moved to Chicago to pursue graduate education at the School of Social Service Administration at the University of Chicago.
Throughout his career, Connor has focused on HIV/AIDS prevention and care, primarily working with LGBTQ young people and youth experiencing homelessness in Denver and Chicago. Among many other things, Connor is passionate about creating spaces that honor the narratives and personal journeys of his clients, believing deeply in a philosophy of social work and therapeutic practice that is client-centered and social justice-oriented.
Connor recently completed the Fellowship Program through the Chicago Center for Psychoanalysis, and finished the beginning year training through the Somatic Experiencing Trauma Institute. In the coming years, he hopes to pursue doctorate education in order to further explore and develop innovative approaches to HIV/AIDS prevention, with specific focus on approaches that cultivate the physical, emotional and spiritual health of LGBTQ-identified individuals.
Did you know? Connor and his partner, Keith, are obsessed with Harry Potter. For their wedding, they had photos taken of them on broomsticks while they chased around a golden snitch.
SPECIAL VISIBILITY AWARDS
DYLAN GEICK
Dylan Geick, 18, has only been an openly gay member of the LGBTQ community for a year now, and it's been the best year of his life. He was an all-American and all-state-winning wrestler at Stevenson High School, compiling an 86-8 record.
"I didn't realize how connected and supportive the LGBT community is," Dylan told Windy City Times in a March profile. "From the moment I came out, there was outreach from so many people, [offering] guidance and advice. It surprised me how much people cared in a positive way, how much they really wanted to help me.
"To the kids in the closet who are worried [about coming out], there is such a huge community that wants to help, and that was pretty surprising to me."
Did you know? Dylan is now committed to attend Columbia University and will wrestle in Division I.
ADAM DAVIES
Adam Davies, 19, grew up in Appleton, Wisconsin.
He is currently an undergraduate student at Northwestern University studying biology and aocial policy. He hopes to continue on to be a university professor and pursue research involving the transgender community.
At Northwestern, Adam has two main passions: speaking out against sexual violence and
advocating for transgender students. Adam is a vocal survivor presence on campus where he has
spoken multiple times about the intersections of queer identities and sexual assault.
In response to a letter written by the dean of students that Adam felt halfheartedly pledged to assist transgender students, he realized it was time to take action to make the university accountable to be a safe space for its transgender community. He currently works closely with University administration and staff in order to achieve gender-affirming healthcare, restroom facilities and correct pronoun usage for all students.
He hopes that, in the future, transgender students who go to Northwestern will not have to face the
struggles he did and can be empowered to be leaders for the transgender community. In addition, he hopes to assist Northwestern in becoming an example for other schools on how to provide
necessary resources for their transgender students.
Did you know? Adam performs on campus as his amateur drag character-" Dick NU" (pronounced "in you")-actively mocking ideas of toxic masculinity at Northwestern.
ARTEM KOLESOV
Artem Kolesov, 23, is originally from Saint Petersburg, Russia.
He began his violin studies at the age of 6 with renowned violinist Natalya Maximenko; he soon after was launched as a young prodigious talent and performed throughout Russia. Later, Artem went on to study with Professor Irina Chichina. At 12, he won first prize at the International Violin Competition in Tallinn, Estonia. Thereafter, he took first prize at the Freiburg International Violin Competition in Germany and was awarded a government prize as the most outstanding young violinist in Saint Petersburg, Russia (2009). He has performed several times as a soloist with the renowned Saint Petersburg Philharmonic Orchestra. One of those performances was recorded, and at the age of 16 Artem was invited to study with Philippe Djokic at Dalhousie University in Halifax, Canada. Artem now lives in Chicago and studies violin with Almita Vamos.
In March 2017 Artem came out to his family, and later posted a video on YouTube where he shared his experience of growing up gay in a Pentecostal family. His coming-out story was published by BuzzFeed, CNN, NPR, Windy City Times and other media outlets in order to highlight the issue of treatment of the LGBT community in Russia and Chechnya.
Did you know? Due to an anti-gay propaganda law, Artem's coming-out video put him at risk of arrest if he returns to Russia.
SPECIAL JOURNALIST AWARD
LIZ BAUDLER
Liz Baudler, 26, never thought she'd be a journalist-her degree from Columbia College Chicago is in fiction writing.
However, Liz realized she was decades from writing a novel and started talking to authors instead; occasionally, that's earned her money. She joined Windy City Times as a freelance writer in 2014. Career highlights include stories about LGBTQ health and psychology as well as interviewing musician Amanda Palmer. Liz also co-hosts Sappho's Salon, a monthly performance series at Women and Children First Bookstore for women, trans and non-binary artists, and has told stories herself at Outspoken, Loose Chicks and Fillet of Solo, among others.
Currently, Liz works with the National LGBT Media Association, a coalition of 12 regional LGBT newspapers of which Windy City Times is a member. This helps her indulge her loves of social media, journalism and LGBTQ history. From 2013 to 2016, Liz delivered lectures on current and past LGBTQ scientists at both Columbia College and Chicago's Museum of Science and Industry. Her future plans include sharpening her journalism skills by covering LGBTQ advertising and marketing, reading lots of queer writing and publishing her poetry chapbook.
Did you know? Liz's non-writing jobs involved feeding giraffes, holding lizards and giving tours on a real WWII German submarine. She's worked at Brookfield Zoo and the Museum of Science and Industry.

Subject: Journalism; Womens health; Awards & honors; Studies; Non-binary gender; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Adler University; NAICS: 611310; Name: DePaul University; NAICS: 611310

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: 18TH ANNUAL THIRTY UNDER 30 HONORS

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 40

Pages: 55-60

Number of pages: 6

Publication year: 2017

Publication date: Jun 21, 2017

Publisher: Windy City Media Gro up

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 1915869818

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/18th-annual-thirty-under-30-honors/docview/1915869818/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jun 21, 2017

Last updated: 2023-06-01

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

NCAVP report: 2016 deadliest year for HIV, LGBT communities

Author: Hammond, Gretchen Rachel

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ncavp-report-2016-deadliest-year-hiv-lgbt/docview/1915308617/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: On Jun 12, the National Coalition of Anti Violence Programs (NCAVP) published its 2016 report. According to data collected nationwide throughout the coalition's 12 member programs, 2016 was the deadliest year on record for the LGBTQ Community. The report noted a 17% increase in homicides of LGBTQ people, not including the lives taken during the Pulse nightclub shooting. The NCAVP reported a total of 77 hate violence- related homicides of LGBTQ and HIV-affected people in 2016.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=39&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2017-06-14&amp;atitle=NCAVP+report%3A+2016+deadliest+year+for+HIV%2C+LGBT+communities&amp;au=Hammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=39&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2017-06-14&amp;atitle=NCAVP+report%3A+2016+deadliest+year+for+HIV%2C+LGBT+communities&amp;au=Hammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

Full text: While the festivals, parades and appearance of Rainbow flags in cities across the world are traditions designed to celebrate Pride month, since 1997 the National Coalition of Anti Violence Programs (NCAVP) release of its National Report on Hate Violence Against Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer and HIV-Affected Communities has served as a sober reminder of the need to lift-up and humanize LGBTQ individuals yearround.
On June 12, the NCAVP published its 2016 report.
According to data collected nationwide throughout the coalition's 12 member programs, 2016 was "the deadliest year on record for the LGBTQ Community."
The report noted a "17 [percent] increase in homicides of LGBTQ people, not including the lives taken during the Pulse nightclub shooting."
June 12 also marked the one year anniversary of the massacre and ceremonies were held across the nation to remember the 49 souls who were ripped from their families and friends in a vicious act of hatred.
The NCAVP reported a total of 77 "hate violence-related homicides of LGBTQ and HIV-affected people in 2016."
It noted that 79 percent of those individuals were people of color, 68 percent were transgender and gender nonconforming people, 61 percent marked both the numbers of transgender women of color who were murdered that year and people under the age of 35.
The NCAVP also stated that it "received information on 1,036 incidents of hate violence across the country. The majority of survivors identified as gay, were below the age of 39, or were people of color."
The types of hate violence experienced included verbal harassment, threats or intimidation (all of which ranked as the most prevalent), physical violence, online or mobile harassment, discrimination and bullying.
Most of those people who reported an act of violence against them (58 percent) knew their attacker. The NCAVP went on to note that, of those people who reported an act of violence against them to law enforcement, "of those who interacted with police, 35 [percent] of survivors said that the police were indifferent and 31 [percent] said that the police were hostile."
In Illinois, the Center on Halsted stated that, in 2016, the organization "interfaced with 58 persons calling to report incidences of violence."
The Center added that the majority of those calls (78 percent) were intimate partner/domestic violence related while 22 percent were hate violence reports.
Lisa Gilmore is the principal and founder of the Illinois Accountability Initiative which is also a member program of the NCAVP. She also sits on the NCAVP's governance and policy committees.
"We have seen a cultural backlash against the gains made by the LGBTQ community in terms of civil rights," Gilmore told Windy City Times. "That backlash has occurred in policy in legislation across the United States. Bathroom bills and religious freedom acts are intentionally meant to push back against equality."
She added that, in the same way legislators have been using policy as a form of attack, "there are other people who use hate violence to show their opposition to LGBTQ equality and liberation. We have historically seen an increase in anti-LGBTQ violence during national campaigns for LGBTQ rights and obviously, during this past election cycle, we saw a lot of explicit rejection of people who are different."
In 2016, Windy City Times completed an extensive report into the correlation between an increase in anti-transgender propaganda and the violence against transgender and gender nonconforming individuals. Gilmore agrees that there is a link between hate crimes and anti-LGBTQ discourse in politics and the media.
The NCAVP's report from that year stated that "following the election, there was an increase in hate violence targeting LGBTQ people, Muslim communities, immigrant communities and communities of color. These communities were fearful that the Trump Administration and conservative legislators across the country would actively work to roll back the few protections they had, and that the hateful rhetoric used to support conservative policies would incite further acts of hate violence. Sadly, the actions taken by the federal administration, from discriminatory Executive Orders to the appointment of Jeff Sessions, Betsy Devos, and others, show that these fears were not unfounded."
"When you look at what is behind people who commit hate crimes, what you see is that the people who are perpetrating these crimes believe that they are trying to send a message about upholding social norms," Gilmore said. "When there are messages of otherness, rejection or people singled out as the root cause of the problems of others, it becomes much easier to perpetrate violence against these folks."
In terms of solutions and to mark the tenth anniversary of its work tracking hate violence nationwide, the NCVAP has released a platform designed to "end violence against LGBTQ communities."
The platform's calls to action include a recognition of "historical systems of oppression such as white supremacy and anti-Black racism, patriarchy and colonialism as root causes of violence."
It stresses the need to "support communitybased efforts that create pathways for individual and community healing" along with advocacy for "education, healthcare, housing and economic opportunities that affirm the experiences of transgender and gender nonconforming people of color."
Echoing an exponentially growing nationwide resistance movement, the NCAVP reasserted the need to "call out and resist 'religious exemption' and 'public accommodation' bills for the hateful legislation that they are" and to "act in solidarity with all movements working towards liberation and self-determination of people impacted by oppression and violence."
Gilmore added a need for messaging that celebrates the humanity of LGBTQ individuals.
"It's a lot harder for people to see someone as an object that they can do violence to when they see them as a fully human, worthy of respect who adds to the beauty of communities," she said. "Being the recipients of hate through culture does not define who we are."
For the full 2016 NCAVP report, visit avp.org/resources/reports.

Subject: Local elections; Hate crimes; Domestic violence; Oppression; Minority & ethnic groups; Murders & murder attempts; Gender; Gays & lesbians; Transgender persons

Location: Illinois; United States--US

People: DeVos, Betsy

Company / organization: Name: Windy City Times; NAICS: 513110

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: NCAVP report: 2016 deadliest year for HIV, LGBT communities

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 39

Pages: 8

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2017

Publication date: Jun 14, 2017

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1915308617

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ncavp-report-2016-deadliest-year-hiv-lgbt/docview/1915308617/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jun 14, 2017

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Youth resident of Chicago House stabbed to death

Author: Hammond, Gretchen Rachel

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/youth-resident-chicago-house-stabbed-death/docview/1915308580/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: A youth resident of a Sheridan Park housing facility owned by Chicago House was brutally beaten and stabbed to death in the evening hours of Jun 11 according to multiple news reports. Unconfirmed reports state that 12-year-old Alexis Stubbs was the victim of a domestic assault. On Jun 12, the Chicago Police Department announced that a Chicago man John Singleton had been charged with first degree murder in Stubbs' death.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=39&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2017-06-14&amp;atitle=Youth+resident+of+Chicago+House+stabbed+to+death&amp;au=Hammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=39&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2017-06-14&amp;atitle=Youth+resident+of+Chicago+House+stabbed+to+death&amp;au=Hammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

Full text: A youth resident of a Sheridan Park housing facility owned by Chicago House was brutally beaten and stabbed to death in the evening hours of June 11 according to multiple news reports.
Unconfirmed reports state that 12-year-old Alexis Stubbs was the victim of a domestic assault. On June 12, the Chicago Police Department (CPD) announced that a Chicago man John Singleton had been charged with first degree murder in Stubbs' death.
According to the Chicago Tribune, Singleton is an ex-boyfriend of the girl's mother. Prison records show that Singleton had just served a three-year sentence at Menard Correctional Center for aggravated domestic battery/strangulation.
The attack against Stubbs allegedly occurred following a 911 call made by the mother after the suspect refused to leave the apartment.
Chicago House Chief Executive Officer Scott Ammarell told Windy City Times that staff and residents of the housing facility are "devastated."
"It's a tight-knit group of people," he said.
"Our first priority is to cooperate with the police as they conduct their investigation," he added "Our other is to make sure that the other residents in the building have the support and services they need. That goes as well for our staff. We are helping people deal with this situation."
Ammarell emphasized that Chicago House takes security at all its facilities very seriously.
"Obviously, there is nothing that's fool proof," he said. "Once the investigation is completed, we will review our security to see if there are changes that need to be made. We are continuing to make sure that the building is as safe as we can make it."
"This is a tragedy for the entire agency," he added. "We all work every day on behalf of our clients and this is something that is just unimaginable and we're all deeply impacted by it."

Subject: Domestic violence; Criminal investigations; Stabbings

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Windy City Times; NAICS: 513110; Name: Police Department-Chicago IL; NAICS: 922120

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Youth resident of Chicago House stabbed to death

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 39

Pages: 10

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2017

Publication date: Jun 14, 2017

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698 X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1915308580

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/youth-resident-chicago-house-stabbed-death/docview/1915308580/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jun 14, 2017

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Patrick Dati raises voice against domestic abuse

Author: Dewey, Charlsie

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/patrick-dati-raises-voice-against-domestic-abuse/docview/1906866770/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Dati said the assault also led to more abusive situations, including the one with his first male partner. In 2014, he wrote his memoir, I Am Me, detailing the abuse he endured and its impacts and he began doing public speaking engagements to talk about his experiences. Dati, who lives in Chicago, regularly speaks to youth at the Center on Halstead and has previously led discussions with the Chicago Police Department on intimate partner violence and how it uniquely impacts men and LGBT victims. Denise Brown, eldest sister of the late Nicole Brown Simpson, formed The Elite Speakers Bureau in 2010 to bring awareness and provide education on domestic violence, school safety, child abuse, teen violence, elder abuse, stalking, net crimes, workplace violence, victims of crime, sexual assault, mental health & wellness and more. Dati is also working on a second book, which he said is focused on the impacts of intimate partner violence and domestic violence on mental health.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=37&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2017-05-31&amp;atitle=Patrick+Dati+raises+voice+against+domestic+abuse&amp;au=Dewey%2C+Charlsie&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=37&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2017-05-31&amp;atitle=Patrick+Dati+raises+voice+against+domestic+abuse&amp;au=Dewey%2C+Charlsie&amp;id=doi:

Full text: After coming out, Patrick Dati fell for a man who seemed great at first, but later began physically abusing him.
The abuse went on for a long time, reaching its peak one night when Dati said his partner threw him down a flight of stairs, sending him to the hospital with a broken arm.
Dati said by this point everyone was already aware of the abuse. His friends had encouraged him to get out of the relationship and many had abandoned him because they couldn't stand to watch him stay with his abuser.
That night was his turning point, but Dati said it wasn't easy and for most men and LGBT victims of intimate partner violence, getting out can be especially challenging and dangerous.
"When I speak at the Center on Halsted now and I speak to the youth, most are young, they meet older men or women who are successful and they move in with them. They've been deserted from their families and if they leave they have nowhere to go.
"That is the problem in regard to the LGBT community with domestic violence. It typically is the younger youth who draw to someone that they think can help them and they fall in love with them and that person is supportive financially and then that person becomes abusive and then they don't know how to get out and escape. It sounds really easy, they can walk out the door, but where will you go if you don't have the financial ability?"
Dati said in his situation he was able to move in with his parents for a while to escape his abuser and later sought help at Center on Halstead.
"I was living with him at that point and I needed to leave that situation," he said. "I waited until he leftand we removed all my items from his house and I moved back to my parents' house and he began stalking me. He came to my parent's house. I had a restraining order against him and my friends all knew it. He haunted me for several months. It was very difficult."
The situation wasn't Dati's first experience with violence. As a nine year old, he became the victim of serial killer and rapist John Wayne Gacy, who he said raped him in a public restroom.
That traumatic event had sent his life into a tailspin.
"After I was raped, I changed as an individual," he said.
He said he fell into a deep depression, flunked the third grade and began distancing himself from others.
"I kind of became this sheltered kid," he said. Dati said the assault also led to more abusive situations, including the one with his first male partner.
"People who have been abused are drawn to abusive people, but in my situation I was drawn to people that were good to me in the beginning and then it turned abusive," he said. "I felt I needed to help them and that I could help them, to stop them from abusing others."
Today, Dati is determined to use his experiences to help others. He said male victims are often forgotten about and he hopes to change that.
In 2014, he wrote his memoir, I Am Me, detailing the abuse he endured and its impacts and he began doing public speaking engagements to talk about his experiences.
Dati, who lives in Chicago, regularly speaks to youth at the Center on Halstead and has previously led discussions with the Chicago Police Department on intimate partner violence and how it uniquely impacts men and LGBT victims.
"It's public knowledge 80 to 85 percent of men don't come forward about their abuse out of fear and shame," Dati said. "It's no different in the LGBT community."
Recently, Dati was asked to join the Elite Speakers Bureau as its first gay male survivor of domestic abuse. He will speak to audiences nationwide about intimate partner violence affecting gay and straight men and the LGBTQ community.
Denise Brown, eldest sister of the late Nicole Brown Simpson, formed The Elite Speakers Bureau in 2010 to bring awareness and provide education on domestic violence, school safety, child abuse, teen violence, elder abuse, stalking, net crimes, workplace violence, victims of crime, sexual assault, mental health & wellness and more.
"I am so grateful to Denise Brown for giving me this platform to amplify the often invisible issue of domestic abuse impacting gay men, straight men and members of the LGBTQ community," Dati said.
Dati was also elected earlier this year to the board of directors for the Break the Silence Foundation, a domestic violence non-profit. He is serving as chairman of the planning committee.
Dati is also working on a second book, which he said is focused on the impacts of intimate partner violence and domestic violence on mental health.
"A lot of times folks think that goes away with therapy or medication," he said. "People believe you are cured and you are not. I learned that firsthand when my first book came out and I was on a book tour, doing radio, TV, etcetera. I thought 'I'm making a difference and doing something great for the world,' but then it slipped away and part of the reason is I stopped seeing my psychiatrist and taking my meds, and that happens to a lot of individuals."
Dati said his message to others is pretty simple, "You need to get out of that situation because it isn't going to change."
He added, "For me, it was a cycle of abuse. I didn't want to live that way anymore and I wanted to be a happy person and I wanted to be secure. There is hope and you don't need to live with abuse. Sometimes it is difficult to walk away, but at the same time by walking away you get back your sense of security."
He also encourages individuals experiencing abuse or who have leftabusive situations to get professional help in dealing with the trauma.
"Most importantly is psychological therapy," he said. "Without that it's not going to change."
Dati and Brown will speak at Break the Silence Foundation's annual gala on Friday, Oct. 27, at the Donald E. Stephens Convention Center, 5555 Rosemont Rd., in Rosemont, Illinois.

Subject: Victims of crime; Domestic violence; Mental health; Sex crimes; Mens health; Rape; Gays & lesbians

People: Gacy, John Wayne

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Patrick Dati raises voice against domestic abuse

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 37

Pages: 8

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2017

Publication date: May 31, 2017

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1906866770

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/patrick-dati-raises-voice-against-domestic-abuse/docview/1906866770/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 31, 2017

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Table of contents

Author: Featured database: GenderWatch

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/table-contents/docview/1906866765/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=37&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=3&amp;date=2017-05-31&amp;atitle=Table+of+contents&amp;au=&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=37&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=3&amp;date=2017-05-31&amp;atitle=Table+of+contents&amp;au=&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Not available.

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Table of contents

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 37

Pages: 3

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2017

Publication date: May 31, 2017

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Table Of Contents

ProQuest document ID: 1906866765

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/table-contents/docview/1906866765/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 31, 2017

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

'Doll Parts': Talking with Amanda Lepore

Author: Keehnen, Owen

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/doll-parts-talking-with-amanda-lepore/docview/1902072156/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Nightclub superstar and trans-visibility pioneer Amanda Lepore has just released her heavily illustrated and visually luscious new memoir, Doll Parts. In the book, Lepore tells the harrowing story of being a New Jersey child growing up with a mentally unstable mother and absentee father who trusts the vision she has of herself from a very young age. Amanda Lepore: Thank you! I was actually approached to write my memoir about four years ago by an...

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=35&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=17&amp;date=2017-05-17&amp;atitle=%27Doll+Parts%27%3A+Talking+with+Amanda+Lepore&amp;au=Keehnen%2C+Owen&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=35&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=17&amp;date=2017-05-17&amp;atitle=%27Doll+Parts%27%3A+Talking+with+Amanda+Lepore&amp;au=Keehnen%2C+Owen&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Nightclub superstar and trans-visibility pioneer Amanda Lepore has just released her heavily illustrated and visually luscious new memoir, Doll Parts.
In the book, Lepore tells the harrowing story of being a New Jersey child growing up with a mentally unstable mother and absentee father who trusts the vision she has of herself from a very young age.
Windy City Times: Wonderful meeting you, Amanda. I really enjoyed Doll Parts. What made this the right time to write your memoir?
Amanda Lepore: Thank you! I was actually approached to write my memoir about four years ago by an author, it was not something I was thinking about at the time.
WCT: What is the biggest misconception people have about you?
AL: I think they focus more on my looks-the plastic surgery-and they don't think or realize how down-to-earth I really am. I am the opposite of what people generally think.
WCT: You mention in the book that early on you wanted to physically be a combination Jayne Mansfield, [an Alberto] Vargas girl and Jessica Rabbit. Has that composite of yourself changed at all in the passing years?
AL: No.
WCT: Reading Doll Parts, you seem so selfassured at a young age regarding your gender identity-asking for gender-confirmation surgery at 10 and having your operation at 17. What advice would you pass on to a young person, maybe not so self-assured, facing the same issues?
AL: Self-confidence is important no matter who you are. If you are transgender, there may be a lot of harassment. It is very important to stay strong no matter what and stay true to yourself.
WCT: You also mention that beautifying takes up 90 percent of your time. What is the other 10 percent?
AL: Yoga.
WCT: In Doll Parts, I was impressed by your toughness. You've endured a lot-a mentally unstable parent, bullying, being kicked out of school, domestic abuse, eating disorders, being surrounded by addiction, some scares as a dominatrix, etc. How do you view those hardships now and what makes you a survivor?
AL: I just deal with situations at the moment, so I do not have to stay focused on anything negative. I stay away from negativity and bad people, and keep myself surrounded with positive influences and happy people.
WCT: An exception was you were in the orbit of the Disco Bloodbath/Party Monster murder by being in the employ, as well as a friend of, Michael Alig. What was the biggest lesson you took away from that entire experience?
AL: Don't become a drug addict and don't kill anyone.
WCT: You refer to yourself as a preservationist. Would you care to explain?
AL: Taking care of myself really well, physically and mentally. It's something that is very important to me.
WCT: When did you first realize you had arrived as a nightlife celebrity?
AL: When people starting writing about me as the "girl of the minute," and when we did the Joan Rivers Show.
WCT: What does Amanda Lepore, the "girl of the minute," do on an evening at home?
AL: Rhinestone my outfits and accessories with Swarovski.
WCT: You mention wanting to live a glamorous life like a movie star. What has been your biggest Hollywood moment in the limelight?
AL: Any time I am surrounded by tons of photographers and flashes going off, it feels like a Hollywood moment.
WCT: What about you that makes you an ideal subject and muse for photographer David LaChapelle?
AL: David said that I was what he envisioned as his ideal woman, before he even met me. When I work with him, I listen to what he wants and follow directions well in order to carry out his visions.
WCT: What is something that is always in your refrigerator?
AL: I don't have a refrigerator. I order in.
WCT: How would you describe yourself in a personals ad if you couldn't use any physical descriptors?
AL: Independent, hard-working, very knowledgeable in cosmetics and the plastic-surgery industry.

Subject: Autobiographies; Surgery; Books

Location: New Jersey; United States--US

People: Alig, Michael; Mansfield, Jayne

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: 'Doll Parts': Talking with Amanda Lepore

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 35

Pages: 17

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2017

Publication date: May 17, 2017

Section: BOOKS

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1902072156

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/doll-parts-talking-with-amanda-lepore/docview/1902072156/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 17, 2017

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

IPV study taking place at NU

Author: Featured database: GenderWatch

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ipv-study-taking-place-at-nu/docview/1900107946/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=34&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2017-05-10&amp;atitle=IPV+study+taking+place+at+NU&amp;au=&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=34&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2017-05-10&amp;atitle=IPV+study+taking+place+at+NU&amp;au=&amp;id=doi:

Full text: The Institute for Sexual and Gender Minority Health (ISGMH) at Northwestern University, in collaboration with the University of Cincinnati, launched a new research study in November 2016.
The new research study, FAB 400, focuses on the personal experiences of sexual minority teenagers in Chicago who are assigned female at birth (AFAB). Taking place over two years, FAB 400 will examine if and how individuals' lives change as they enter into and out of different relationships.
FAB 400's main goal is to examine the prevalence of intimate partner violence (IPV) in the LGBTQ community. It has been noted that IPV is two to three times more prevalent among LGBTQ teens than their heterosexual counterparts.
FAB 400 is currently seeking new participants who identify as people of color, assigned female at birth and identify as LGBTQ. Interested persons should complete the survey at goo.gl/ i0eDND or contact the research team at fab400@ impactprogram.org.

Subject: Minority & ethnic groups

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: University of Cincinnati; NAICS: 611310

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: IPV study taking place at NU

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 34

Pages: 11

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2017

Publication date: May 10, 2017

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1900107946

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ipv-study-taking-place-at-nu/docview/1900107946/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 10, 2017

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

NU conference looks at LGBT health

Author: Simonette, Matt

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/nu-conference-looks-at-lgbt-health/docview/1898633300/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Ilan H. Meyer-the Williams Distinguished Senior Scholar for Public Policy at the Williams Institute for Sexual Orientation Law and Public Policy at UCLA's School of Law-said April 29 that responses to his talks on LGBT-focused research and public policy have changed since the November elections. According to Karen Parker, director of National Institutes of Health's (NIH) Sexual and Gender Minority Research Office, in 2015, the government spent about $162 million funding about 301 research projects...

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=33&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=4&amp;date=2017-05-03&amp;atitle=NU+conference+looks+at+LGBT+health&amp;au=Simonette%2C+Matt&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=33&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=4&amp;date=2017-05-03&amp;atitle=NU+conference+looks+at+LGBT+health&amp;au=Simonette%2C+Matt&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Ilan H. Meyer-the Williams Distinguished Senior Scholar for Public Policy at the Williams Institute for Sexual Orientation Law and Public Policy at UCLA's School of Law-said April 29 that responses to his talks on LGBT-focused research and public policy have changed since the November elections.
Wherein, prior to November, Meyer would have to convince audiences that advancing LGBT rights still required vigilance and work, he now has to convince them that the community's circumstances aren't completely bleak.
Meyer spoke when Northwestern University's Institute for Sexual and Gender Minority Health and Wellbeing and Center on Halsted hosted the National LGBTQ Health Conference at the Hyatt Centric Hotel in downtown Chicago April 28-29. He primarily addressed models of minority health disparities and how those impacted the LGBT community.
He noted that prejudice and stigma often lead to negative health outcomes for minority communities, and emphasized that individuals sometimes don't even see themselves as the targets of discrimination; sometimes, he noted, perpetrators might not use slurs but still harass members of minority groups.
Meyer urged the audience to think about the idea of resilience, which targeted individuals need to stand up for themselves. He noted that American culture's linking of resilience with stoicism and internal fortitude offers little helpful to those impacted by prejudice.
"Resilience doesn't happen in a vacuum," he said. "Resilience happens when you have resources."
A number of speakers in the program addressed the scope of current research on LGBT health as well as its funding from the federal government.
According to Karen Parker, director of National Institutes of Health's (NIH) Sexual and Gender Minority Research Office, in 2015, the government spent about $162 million funding about 301 research projects relating to LGBT health.
She further noted that about 73 percent of the money goes to issues related to HIV/AIDS.
"Within our office we are very concerned about this other 27 percent that are very often lumped into this other smaller piece of the pie," she said, noting that other realms, such as mental-health issues are thus woefully underfunded. "It's certainly not enough, and I have no excuse for NIH about that."
Audience members expressed concern about how the funding structure will change with Republicans in both the White House and in control of Congress. But Parker and her colleagues emphasized that many career-officials worked at NIH and that the most important task for researchers was to continue to apply for funding and demonstrate that there is a need for and interest in this kind of work.
NIH officials, Parker said, had "incredibly wellcalibrated moral compasses."
Others speaking at the Northwestern-Center on Halsted conference included Laura Kann of the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and Bianca Wilson of the Williams Institute. Breakout sessions addressed topics such as PrEP, LGBT intimate-partner violence and mental health, among other topics.

Subject: Research; Funding; Public policy

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: NU conference looks at LGBT health

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 33

Pages: 4

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2017

Publication date: May 3, 2017

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1898633300

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/nu-conference-looks-at-lgbt-health/docview/189863 3300/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 3, 2017

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

LGBTQ partner violence presents unique challenges

Author: Pettitt, Bronson

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lgbtq-partner-violence-presents-unique-challenges/docview/1885168987/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [...]more than 43 percent of lesbian women and 26 percent of gay men in the U.S. have experienced some type of physical intimate partner violence, or IPV, according to sources cited in Dr. Adam Messinger's new book, LGBTQ Intimate Partner Violence: Lessons for Policy, Practice, and Research, published by the University of California Press. [...]a substantial amount of research has shown that people who are not yet out of the closet about their sexual orientation or their trans* identity to everyone in their lives-and frankly most people aren't out to everyone- leaves them vulnerable to abusers who might use that as leverage to say, 'if you tell anyone about what I'm doing to you or if you leave me, I can out you to your parents, your siblings, to your employer, your friends,'" Messinger said.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=28&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=27&amp;date=2017-03-29&amp;atitle=LGBTQ+partner+violence+presents+unique+challenges&amp;au=Pettitt%2C+Bronson&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=28&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=27&amp;date=2017-03-29&amp;atitle=LGBTQ+partner+violence+presents+unique+challenges&amp;au=Pettitt%2C+Bronson&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Headnote BOOKS
In new book, Chicago author dispels myths and finds intimate partner violence is more prevalent than believed
Many LGBTQ people experience some form of violence from their partners at some point, but this often goes unreported and even unnoticed.
In fact, more than 43 percent of lesbian women and 26 percent of gay men in the U.S. have experienced some type of physical intimate partner violence, or IPV, according to sources cited in Dr. Adam Messinger's new book, LGBTQ Intimate Partner Violence: Lessons for Policy, Practice, and Research, published by the University of California Press.
The prevalence rate for physical IPV among bisexual women and men is upwards of 60 percent and 37 percent, respectively, while trans* people reported up to 46 percent, writes Messinger, a professor at Northeastern Illinois University.
In all instances, physical IPV rates were higher for LGBTQ people than for heterosexual cisgender couples, according to the book. The same is true for other types of violence, including psychological violence.
Messinger reviewed more than 600 research publications from various disciplines spanning six continents and four decades of research, in what he says is a comprehensive approach to LGBTQ IPV research.
"Every article I'd read on LGBTQ IPV would begin with the statement, 'there's not a lot of research on this.' And after writing the book I can say, 'that's not entirely true.' There's quite a bit,'" Messinger told Windy City Times.
Rather, LGBTQ IPV research exists but it is segmented by sexual minority and academic discipline, dispersed among scores of hard-to-access databases, Messinger found.
"My hope is that the book raises the national public profile of LGBTQ IPV. It's a real, serious problem," he said.
Myths and barriers
Several myths surround LGBTQ IPV: that it is rare or less severe than violence in heterosexual relationships. There is an assumption that LGBTQ people are inherently nonviolent, especially sexual minority women, according to Messinger.
But this stereotype can prevent "lesbian female victims' ability to recognize that a partner's behavior is in fact abusive rather than normal," Messinger writes.
Similarly, in male same-gender relationships, men are stereotypically viewed to be of similar physical strength and able to "hold their own."
"Men often times report feeling particularly worried about seeking help because no one would believe them and they'll feel like somehow they're less of a man or someone else will say that," Messinger said.
But IPV is not only physical-it also includes psychological, emotional and even "identity" violence, Messinger said.
"For instance, a substantial amount of research has shown that people who are not yet out of the closet about their sexual orientation or their trans* identity to everyone in their lives-and frankly most people aren't out to everyone- leaves them vulnerable to abusers who might use that as leverage to say, 'if you tell anyone about what I'm doing to you or if you leave me, I can out you to your parents, your siblings, to your employer, your friends,'" Messinger said.
Conversely, abusers sometimes pressure victims to remain closeted, especially if the abuser is not out to everyone in their life.
Furthermore, many U.S. states lack anti-discrimination laws protecting LGBTQ people in housing, employment and public accommodation. And barriers for transgender people being able to change their names and gender listed on formal identification "has a ripple effect throughout their lives," Messinger said.
In some states, if one were to pursue a protective order or engage in a civil suit under domestic violence statues, "it's quite possible that that state might require your name and identity to become public."
"That really creates a lot of barriers to being able to ask for help and not have to out yourself at the same time," Messinger said.
"The law is not on the side of LGBTQ people who experience intimate partner violence," making it more difficult for victims to receive help.
Messinger pointed to other myths that make LGBTQ IPV unique: that it should not be discussed out of fear of undermining LBGTQ struggles for equality and that LGBTQ IPV abusers are masculine.
Messinger said he hopes his book draws attention to the issue of LGBTQ IPV "when there is so little in terms of resources and policy being oriented towards this issue." And with all the challenges and unique traits of LGBTQ IPV, customized resources and support are necessary, he said.
He wrote the book as a sort of how-to guide with practical tips and a broad audience in mind-law enforcement, mental and medical health providers, social workers, domestic violence hotline operators, domestic violence shelter staff, policymakers, victims, allies and advocates.
What's next
Messinger reviewed scores of literature published in English, but he said he'd like to see further research in other languages, at a time when same-gender marriage is fully legal in about 22 nations and 15 countries permit joint adoption by same-gender couples.
There is also a lack of research on how LGBTQ IPV intersects with the criminal justice system, he said.
Police are 10 to 30 times more likely to arrest both partners in cases of violence between samegender partners than different-gender partners, Messinger writes.
"It sends the wrong message to the victim that somehow if they seek help, they're the ones who are going to suffer for it," Messinger said.
"Often times that makes it harder for victims to receive services because they're labeled an abuser, making it difficult to get into a shelter," he said.
Messinger is also part of a research team conducting longitudinal research of IPV among youths to see how patterns of abuse change over time.
LGBTQ Intimate Partner Violence: Lessons for Policy, Practice, and Research is published by the University of California Press, and is available in hardcover and e-book through Amazon and Barnes and Noble.

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Colleges & universities; Domestic violence; Gender; Women

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: University of California Press; NAICS: 513120

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: LGBTQ partner violence presents unique challenges

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 28

Pages: 27

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2017

Publication date: Mar 29, 2017

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 1885168987

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lgbtq-partner-violence-presents-unique-challenges/docview/1885168987/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 29, 2017

Last updated: 2023-07-11

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

COMMUNITY CALENDAR

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/community-calendar/docview/1881692424/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: 7:30pm Auditorium Theatre of Roosevelt University 50 E Congress Pkwy Chicago 312-341-2300 Tickets: http:// AuditoriumTheatre.org Thursday, March 23 2017 IMPACT awards Honoring women leaders including Esther Saks. 5:00pm Venue Six10 Spertis Institute 610 S. Michigan Ave.; https://www.cfw. org/2017ia/ Youth Empowerment Performance Project presents Forging from Fire Ensemble members share personal experiences of physical, verbal, sexual violence, DCFS, foster-home system, incarceration of TGNC, domestic violence, selfharm, mental health, suicide and how circumstances, behaviors and choices can create compromising situations. 7:00pm The Athenaeum Theatre 2936 N Southport Ave.; Tickets: https://web. ovationtix.com/trs/pr/968520 Friday, March 24 HIV Training and Lunch & Learn with Gilead: Presentation on HIV ODEFSEY ODEFSEY is a complete 1-pill, oncea-day HIV-1 medicine.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=27&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=22&amp;date=2017-03-22&amp;atitle=COMMUNITY+CALENDAR&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=27&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=22&amp;date=2017-03-22&amp;atitle=COMMUNITY+CALENDAR&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Wed., March 22
Chicago Flower & Garden Show: "Chicago's Blooming!" Presented by Mariano's. Garden build-outs, featuring Chicago L Tracks and Bungalows. Aquascapes. Kids' Activity Garden. Butterfly cage where guests feed the Monarchs. Fashion Show Fleurotica. Through March 26. $5 - $17 10:00am Navy Pier http://chicagoflower.com/
HIV and Aging panel With continued advances in healthcare treatment and therapy, early detection, and preventative tests for seropositive individuals, life expectancy of HIV+ populations has created the possibility of senior years. Art AIDS America exhibit hall. 6:00pm - 8:00pm Alphawood Gallery, 2401 N. Halsted St., Chicago 773-687-7676 http://the-care-plan.com
DIFFA's 'Art for Life' benefit The Design Industries Foundation Fighting AIDS/Chicago (DIFFA/Chicago) has announced a juried art exhibit and auction is the newest extension of DIFFA Chicago, created to benefit those living with and vulnerable to HIV/AIDS. @ArtForLifeChicago and using the hashtag #AFLCHI. $100. 6:00pm Venue One, 1034 W. Randolph St. https://www.artforlifechicago.org
Cancer & the LGBTQIA+ Communities: What's Different? Limited programs address cancer in the LGBTQIA+ communities. Gilda's Club Chicago is offering an educational lecture and the opportunity to voice opinions about what kind of support best suits LGBTQIA cancer needs. Free with RSVP 6:30pm - 7:30pm Gilda's Club Chicago 537 N Wells St, Chicago http://www.gildasclubchicago.org
Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater Three new works: Deep, by Mauro Bigonzetti and set to the music of global music stars Ibeyi; r-Evolution, Dream, by company member Hope Boykin, inspired by Martin Luther King Jr. and set to narration by Tony winner Leslie Odom Jr. (Hamilton) and original music; and Untitled America, which examines the impact of incarceration on AfricanAmerican families. Through March 26. 7:30pm Auditorium Theatre of Roosevelt University 50 E Congress Pkwy Chicago 312-341-2300 Tickets: http:// AuditoriumTheatre.org
Thursday, March 23
2017 IMPACT awards Honoring women leaders including Esther Saks. 5:00pm Venue Six10 Spertis Institute 610 S. Michigan Ave.; https://www.cfw. org/2017ia/
Youth Empowerment Performance Project presents Forging from Fire Ensemble members share personal experiences of physical, verbal, sexual violence, DCFS, foster-home system, incarceration of TGNC, domestic violence, selfharm, mental health, suicide and how circumstances, behaviors and choices can create compromising situations. 7:00pm The Athenaeum Theatre 2936 N Southport Ave.; Tickets: https://web. ovationtix.com/trs/pr/968520
Friday, March 24
HIV Training and Lunch & Learn with Gilead: Presentation on HIV ODEFSEY ODEFSEY is a complete 1-pill, oncea-day HIV-1 medicine. Presenter: Dr. Thomas R. Klein, M.D. Free lunch will be provided. FREE but advance registration is required. 2:00pm - 3:00pm Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted St.; Tickets: https://community.centeronhalsted. org/LunchLearn
Saturday, March 25
Chicago Sinfonietta, More Than a Letter: Celebration of LGBTQ Artists and Classical Music Reflecting on self-identity and self-expression through the artistry of LGBTQ composers and musicians, celebrating difference, finding common ground and embracing the beauty of authenticity. 8:00pm Wentz Concert Hall 171 E. Chicago Ave Naperville, IL 6040 http://www.chicagosinfonietta. org/1617season/more-than-a-letter/
Sami Grisafe's House Party benefiting the Chicago Force Doors open at 8:30pm. $15advance, $20door, 21+ 9:00pm - 2:00am Martyrs' 3855 N Lincoln Ave Chicago http://martyrslive. com/sat-mar-25-9pm-15adv20door
Sunday, March 26
Talk: Trans Liberation NOW! (Vives Q Lab) Latinx LGBTQ comunidad and a trans-led panel and discussion. March Vives Q Lab is a partnership with TaskForce Prevention and Community Services. Taskforce Prevention & Community Services in Chicago, Illinois 2:00pm - 5:00pm Taskforce Prevention & Community Services, 9 N Cicero Ave, Chicago https://www.facebook.com/ events/1460059090684523/
Monday, March 27
NGLCC National Legal Industry Council Roundtable Exploring opportunities to partner with firms and corporations in the National Gay & Lesbian Chamber of Commerce 8:30am - 10:30am Baker McKenzie, 300 E. Randolph St.; Tickets: http://www.nglcc.com
Tuesday, March 28
How to be an ally to LGBTQ youth in Illinois Part of Equality Illinois "Spring to Action" agenda, presented with Rainbow Cafe and Illinois Safe Schools Alliance. 6:00pm - 8:30pm Carbondale Unitarian Fellowship, 105 N Parrish Lane, Carbondale http://EqualityIllinois.org/2017trainings
Author Camille Paglia, "Free Women, Free Men: Sex, Gender, Feminism" From the fiery intellectual provocateur, an essay collection that celebrates and challenges modern feminism. Fiery words an intellectual foundation. 6:00pm Harold Washington College 30 E. Lake St.; https://chipublib.bibliocommons.com/events/search/index

Subject: Acquired immune deficiency syndrome--AIDS; Art exhibits; Music; Human immunodeficiency virus--HIV; Domestic violence; Cancer; Imprisonment

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: COMMUNITY CALENDAR

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 27

Pages: 22

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2017

Publication date: Mar 22, 2017

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 1881692424

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/community-calendar/docview/1881692424/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 22, 2017

Last updated: 2023-07-11

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

A few LGBTQ concerts to watch out for

Author: Morgan, Scott C

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/few-lgbtq-concerts-watch-out/docview/1881096079/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: The London Gay Men's Chorus is also slated to perform with the Chicago Gay Men's Chorus at 7:30 p.m. on Thursday, May 25, at a venue to be determined. (*BTown shows are at 8 p.m. on Friday, May 19, at Harris Theater for Music and Dance, 205 E. Randolph St.; 8 p.m. Saturday, May 20 at North Shore Center for the Performing Arts, 9501 Skokie Blvd., Skokie; and 3 p.m. Sunday, May 21, at Beverly Arts Center, 2407 W. 111th St.; CGMC. org) Artemis Singers, Chicago's lesbian feminist chorus, has a Pride Concert and Dance planned for Saturday, June 17, at First Unitarian Church, 5650 S. Woodlawn Ave. For more information, visit ArtemisSingers.org.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=26&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=23&amp;date=2017-03-15&amp;atitle=A+few+LGBTQ+concerts+to+watch+out+for&amp;au=Morgan%2C+Scott+C&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=26&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=23&amp;date=2017-03-15&amp;atitle=A+few+LGBTQ+concerts+to+watch+out+for&amp;au=Morgan%2C+Scott+C&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Headnote SPRING CONCERT PREVIEW
Many local and visiting LGBTQ performers and their allies raise their voices and share their musical skills this spring. Here are a few concerts to check out. All locations in Chicago unless otherwise noted.
Windy City Performing Arts is the umbrella organization for the ensembles of the Windy City Gay Chorus (Chicago's oldest gay choral group) and the Windy City Treble Quire. After tackling Orff's cantata Carmina Burana last year, the organization is now returning to the major classical choral work that is Fauré's Requiem. Also in the pipeline for June is a Pride concert titled Pulse. (Fauré's Requiem is at 5 and 8 p.m. on Saturday, March 18, at First United Methodist Chruch, 77 W. Washington St.; visit WindyCitySings.org.)
The Concert for America was devised as a fundraiser for organizations like the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, the Sierra Club, the NAACP, the National Immigration Law Center and the Southern Poverty Law Center in the wake of recent political shifts in America. Sirius XM Broadway host Seth Rudetsky and his husband, Broadway producer James Wesley, were the founders of the Concert for America, and they feature a mix of Broadway, TV and film performers.
The Concert for America comes to Chicago for the first time with stars like two-time Tony Award-winner Chita Rivera, pop star Melissa Manchester, two-time Emmy Award-winner Sharon Gless, cast members from Hamilton in Chicago and more. (8 p.m. Monday, March 20, at the Auditorium Theatre of Roosevelt University, 50 E. Congress Parkway; AuditoriumTheatre.org)
Seth Rudetsky is also involved as the music director and accompanist for a joint concert featuring six-time Tony winner Audra McDonald and her husband, Tony nominee Will Swenson, at Steppenwolf Theatre, 1650 N. Halsted St. (6:30 p.m. Monday, May 22; Steppenwolf.org)
The Chicago Sinfonietta's upcoming concerts of More Than a Letter are billed as "A Celebration of LGBTQ Artists and Classical Music." Guest conductor Michael Morgan leads performances of works by composers Bernstein, Higdon, Barber and more. Guest artists include pianist Sara Davis Buechner and the choruses Allegrezza Singers and Musicality. (8 p.m. Saturday, March 25, at North Central College's Wenz Concert Hall, 171 E. Chicago Ave., Naperville; then at 7:30 p.m. Monday, March 27, at Symphony Center, 220 S. Michigan Ave.; chicagosinfonietta.org)
The Allegrezza Singers perform their own choral concerts titled Turn the World Around at 3 p.m. Sunday, May 7, at Union Church, 137 S. Garfield St., Hinsdale, and at 7:30 p.m. Friday, May 12 at Ebenezer Lutheran Church, 1650 W. Foster Ave. Visit AllegrezzaSingers.com.
In the touring concert *BTown, the Chicago Gay Men's Chorus explores all kinds of boy bands ranging from barbershop quartets to modern pop groups like *NSYNC and One Direction. The London Gay Men's Chorus is also slated to perform with the Chicago Gay Men's Chorus at 7:30 p.m. on Thursday, May 25, at a venue to be determined. (*BTown shows are at 8 p.m. on Friday, May 19, at Harris Theater for Music and Dance, 205 E. Randolph St.; 8 p.m. Saturday, May 20 at North Shore Center for the Performing Arts, 9501 Skokie Blvd., Skokie; and 3 p.m. Sunday, May 21, at Beverly Arts Center, 2407 W. 111th St.; CGMC. org)
Artemis Singers, Chicago's lesbian feminist chorus, has a Pride Concert and Dance planned for Saturday, June 17, at First Unitarian Church, 5650 S. Woodlawn Ave. For more information, visit ArtemisSingers.org.
Note: The author of this piece currently sings with the Chicago Gay Men's Chorus and has previously performed with the Windy City Gay Chorus.

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Performing arts; Musicians & conductors; Musical performances; Singers

Company / organization: Name: Chicago Gay Mens Chorus; NAICS: 711130

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: A few LGBTQ concerts to watch out for

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 26

Pages: 23

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2017

Publication date: Mar 15, 2017

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1881096079

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/few-lgbtq-concerts-watch-out/docview/1881096079/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 15, 2017

Last updated: 2023-07-11

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

BILLY Masters

Author: Masters, Billy

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/billy-masters/docview/1881096061/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Since John has frequently expressed his fondness for Amell's physique, this was certainly the gift that kept on giving. [...]he just went public about his beau-they've been together for weeks ... er, months.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=26&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=29&amp;date=2017-03-15&amp;atitle=BILLY+Masters&amp;au=Masters%2C+Billy&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=26&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=29&amp;date=2017-03-15&amp;atitle=BILLY+Masters&amp;au=Masters%2C+Billy&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   I thought awards season was over. And yet, there are still a couple ceremonies to talk about-like the iHeartRadio Awards. I can hear you rolling your eyes, but suspend your disbelief until I share this almost touching story. When Justin Timberlake received an award for "Can't Stop the Feeling", he said, "If you are Black or you are brown or you are gay or you are a lesbian or you are trans or maybe you're just a sissy singing boy from Tennessee. Anyone who has treated you unkindly, it's only because they are afraid or they have been taught to be afraid of how important you are. Because being different means you make a difference. So, fuck 'em." I'm not sure about all that Kumbaya crap, but I have no problem getting behind Justin-especially when he's saying "Fuck 'em!"
I ask your indulgence in this next story because, to be honest, I have no idea what I'm talking about. I had abandoned American Idol long before it limped to its final days on the tube. But I vaguely remember La'Porsha. What can I say? I have a penchant for big Black women with apostrophes in their names.
I went back in the archives of BillyMasters. com, and read some quotes she made when the so-called "bathroom bill" passed in her native Mississippi. On the topic of homosexuality, she said, "I am one of the people who doesn't really agree with that lifestyle. I wasn't brought up that way, it wasn't how I was raised. But I do have a lot of friends and a lot of people that I love dearly who are gay and homosexual and they're such sweet, nice people." So I find it all the more mind-boggling that now, a scant year later, she's made what I find a startling statement: "I chose to be heterosexual after being homosexual for 2 years." Huh? Turns out this revelation is in support of another one of her beliefs: "You're wrong to think it's not a choice for some ... because it was for me." She has also said, "I chose a belief system that felt TRUE to my spirit." She calls it a choice. Others might call it denial.
Something that is definitely a choice is whether or not to be a whore. I don't say that in a disparaging way. After all, everybody loves a whore. If they didn't, it would be hard to earn the title. This story is an update on the whore of 2016 (and several previous decades): Logo's Prince Charming, Robert Sepulveda Jr. Brace yourself-he's single. I know-who couldn't see that coming? "Eric is a super, super sweet guy, but we're not together and I'm completely, completely single," he said. Sounds like an escort ad to me. But, wait-he's not done, saying, "I have lots of production companies that are interested in doing shows with me, so I'm going to focus on that and my pocketbook." What a shocking shift in priorities-holding out for cash. But, riddle me this: Who are these numerous production companies looking to hire an aging gay hooker? 'Cause I'm willing to put out ... for a price.
I love Seth Rudetsky and his partner, James Wesley. They're the guys behind the charity single "What The World Needs Now" to benefit the victims of the Pulse Nightclub shooting. And they produced the benefit Concert for America: Stand Up, Sing Out, which was counter-programming for the inauguration. The first concert was such a success, they're taking their show on the road. On March 20, the Concert for America will take place at Auditorium Theatre of Roosevelt University in Chicago and will star such luminaries as Chita Rivera, Melissa Manchester and Ana Gasteyer (who I saw in Stephen Sondheim's Passion at the Chicago Shakespeare Theater). Proceeds from the concert will benefit the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, Sierra Club, NAACP, Southern Poverty Law Center and the National Immigration Law Center. As with the first concert, you can watch it online for free. More details and tickets can be found at ConcertsForAmerica.com.
John Barrowman was brought up in Chicago, and last week he reached a landmark-he turned 50. And he celebrated the event in several ways. First, he chopped off all his hair and revealed his natural silver coloring-which I must say suits him. Then he launched a T-shirt campaign to support transgender rights and posted a photo wearing the shirt (taken pre-coif). "Most of us have the luxury of being who we are and living our truth. We must stand in solidarity with those who are not as lucky. Grab one of these T-shirts and wear it with pride. Let's show our support for our transgender family," he said. Proceeds from the campaign will go to the Trans Youth Equality Foundation. As Johnny suggests, you can grab one at Represent.com/barrowman.
As noble and fulfilling as that endeavor is, what he'll likely remember from turning 50 is the sight of his Arrow co-star, Stephen Amell, bringing out his birthday cake wearing only a pair of snug camouflage undies! Since John has frequently expressed his fondness for Amell's physique, this was certainly the gift that kept on giving. You can see Barrowman blowing out his candles on BillyMasters.com.
Someone noticeably absent from Barrowman's birthday bash was Colton Haynes. But he had a good reason-he got engaged. Engaged? Didn't he just meet this guy? Actually, he just went public about his beau-they've been together for weeks ... er, months. Colton's florist/boyfriend got Cher to make a video singing their favorite song, "I've Got You Babe," and then he popped the question complete with fireworks. What could possibly go wrong?
When "straight as an arrow" takes on new meaning, it's definitely time to end yet another column. You know what I got out of this column? That Eric from Finding Prince Charming is available. So, while I schedule a blow-out, you can check out www.BillyMasters.com-the site that only takes a little off the top. If you have a question, send it along to Billy@BillyMasters.com and I promise to get back to you before Eric asks if I brought my own shampoo bottle. So, until next time, remember: One man's filth is another man's bible.

Subject: Birthdays; Gays & lesbians; Transgender persons

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: BILLY Masters

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 26

Pages: 29

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2017

Publication date: Mar 15, 2017

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1881096061

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/billy-masters/docview/1881096061/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 15, 2017

Last updated: 2023-06-26

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Center relaunches therapy group for LGBT violence survivors

Author: Smith, Angelique

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/center-relaunches-therapy-group-lgbt-violence/docview/1881096054/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: The Anti-Violence Project (AVP) at the Center on Halsted "empowers lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and HIV-affected communities and allies to end all forms of violence through organizing and education, and supports survivors through counseling and advocacy." the Center states. AVP is not primarily grant-funded; we rely on the Center and also get funding through the [federal] Violence Against Women Act [VAWA] and the [Illinois] attorney general's office. Domestic violence in men is often neglected, unnoticed, or treated as mutual fighting, yet one in three bisexual men have experienced intimate partner violence. 6.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=26&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2017-03-15&amp;atitle=Center+relaunches+therapy+group+for+LGBT+violence+survivors&amp;au=Smith%2C+Angelique&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=26&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2017-03-15&amp;atitle=Center+relaunches+therapy+group+for+LGBT+violence+survivors&amp;au=Smith%2C+Angelique&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   The Anti-Violence Project (AVP) at the Center on Halsted "empowers lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and HIV-affected communities and allies to end all forms of violence through organizing and education, and supports survivors through counseling and advocacy." the Center states.
Windy City Times spoke with Rachel L. Tillman, a licensed clinical professional counselor who runs the AVP, about her work.
Windy City Times: How did the Center's AntiViolence Project (AVP) come about?
Rachel Tillman: The Center was one of the founding members [in 1995] of the National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs [NCAVP], a reporting entity and coalition of 57 members who get together to influence policy on local and national levels. At that time, there wasn't an entity that focused specifically on violence that targets LGBTQ communities.
There was, and still is, a sense that things are underreported. They also wanted to have a little bit more control in how things are reported- instead of grouping men and women together while not even considering sexual orientation. We connect people with resources, from housing to employment, and we offer individual, couples and group therapy. We currently have two groups for survivors of trauma, one of which is the domestic violence/intimate partner violence (DV/ IPV) group that I run. We also have a violence resource line.
WCT: How does the program receive funding?
RT: AVP is not primarily grant-funded; we rely on the Center and also get funding through the [federal] Violence Against Women Act [VAWA] and the [Illinois] attorney general's office.
WCT: How, politically, could that drastically change funding for your program [since VAWA is federal]?
RT: Yeah. That's, in part, why it's very important that we are a coalition, as opposed to oneoff entities. I was just on a call yesterday and we were talking about, "What do we do with the new attorney general and with [the threat to] Violence Against Women Act funding?" Our current funding is through the Illinois attorney general's office, not the federal level.
WCT: Are the volunteers that you work with, in general, Center on Halsted volunteers?
RT: I supervise, recruit and train volunteers, so it's a bit more of a vetting process. It's a three-month minimum commitment because there's a lot of training on how to handle calls. You're dealing with people, oftentimes who are confused, distressed and might not even know they're distressed. People who want to help can also donate, writing "Anti-Violence Project" in the memo line [of a check].
WCT: Are there any statistics that you can give me concerning LGBTQ DV/IPV that you think people would be surprised to hear?
RT: Sixty-eight percent of our callers identify as men. The Center has a reputation for being a gay male organization and that might be why men, in particular, know that we're safe to call. But it is a bit alarming that our stats are a bit reversed, gender-wise.
The problem with that stat is not just the general shock value, but the fact that there is only one DV shelter for men in the whole city and there are at least 22 for women. I can't even count how many males try to go through the court system to get an order of protection, and it's denied because it's perceived that when men are violent, it's mutual. It's an often-neglected area in the field of DV.
WCT: What has been the community reaction to the group?
RT: We have gotten a lot of calls from people who are looking for an LGBT-specific group. There are entities that are very LGBTQ-friendly, but they're not exclusive. We are the only group, to my knowledge, that says, if you identify as straight, we're going to refer you out, just because we want this to feel like a safe group for people who identify as LGBTQ. I want to be very clear, I mean L-G-B-T-Q, so if people identify as bisexual and are in an opposite-sex DV relationship, they are welcome, too. What is often the case is that there's a bi female partnered with a straight male and, oftentimes, her sexuality is used against her in a domestic-violence way.
WCT: What typically happens in a session?
RT: We have a loose curriculum I developed, in collaboration with other materials. We do a mindfulness exercise to get people a little bit more connected to their bodies and aware. Then we have a topical discussion. Oftentimes, we do individual reflection followed by group sharing. The group lasts about 90 minutes and we try to keep it small in size.
WCT: What does Center on Halsted do to ensure the safety and anonymity of group members?
RT: We're bound by HIPAA [Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act] law. In order to ensure physical safety, all of the clients have to have a key card to get access to our therapy groups. We also limit people in the group to those who do not identify as offenders. We maintain safety as to not retraumatize.
WCT: What do you think is the main stigma attached to IPV in the LGBTQ community?
RT: Externally, the way people outside of the community-from law enforcement to service providers-minimize, neglect and retraumatize. The other prong is internal, the internal silence in the sense that the community is small. Who can I talk to about this when this person just led an awesome speech at, for example, Dyke March, and nobody is going to believe what she does at home? And then you want me to call the Center where I might know somebody on staff? Where do you go to for support within your own community? That's probably what we see very often.
WCT: How does intersectionality come into play when recommending resources, care and support?
RT: It's absolutely crucial and it's best practice. From ethnicity to immigration status-it all comes into play. It's scary because right now we're dealing with an influx of people who are more afraid to talk about domestic violence because they're undocumented and have deportation fears because of the current political climate. Intersectionality impacts everything we do.
More about the Anti-Violence Project:
-LGBTQ Violence Resource Line | 9-5 M-F | 773.871.CARE (2273)
-Group time: Thursdays, 5:30-7 p.m. Reserve a spot by emailing avp@centeronhalsted.org or calling 773-472-6469, ext. 438.
-Contact Rachel Tillman (rtillman@cenrteronhalsted.org) to volunteer
Calls to action
Rachel Tillman, LCPC, followed up with WCT with these calls to action in terms of DV/IPV:
1. Volunteer: Center on Halsted's Anti-Violence Project; RVA (Rape Victims' Advocates); The Network: National.
2. Give: Center on Halsted; other AVPs in states with limited protections (AVP.org).
3. Learn: A crucial dynamic in DV is power and control, not bruises and black eyes.
4. Be: A safe person, not shocked or disbelieving anything when someone in the community starts talking about their relationships: If two in five lesbian women and two out of three bisexual women have experienced violence by an intimate partner, then you've met a survivor or are one.
5. Ask and Notice relationships: Domestic violence in men is often neglected, unnoticed, or treated as mutual fighting, yet one in three bisexual men have experienced intimate partner violence.
6. Kickstart: Seventy-one percent of DV survivors reported being denied emergency shelter due to gender identity. We need more shelters accepting of all gender identities, gender nonbinary, etc.
7. (Safely) Report: Transgender domestic violence is underreported and often the survivor is criminalized (or deported).
8. Call: The Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) is up for re-authorization next year-let's ensure that provisions that protect sexual orientation and gender identity remain. Call the U.S. Department of Justice. If you live in a historically red state, contact your state's U.S. representative to voice your support for reauthorization.
9. Show up: The support at airports was amazing-let's also show up at courthouses and ensure that survivors are not arrested-a violation of VAWA.

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Gender identity; Attorneys general; Domestic violence; Sexual orientation; Volunteers; Women; Funding; Transgender persons

Location: Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Center relaunches therapy group for LGBT violence survivors

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 26

Pages: 8

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2017

Publication date: Mar 15, 2017

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1881096054

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/center-relaunches-therapy-group-lgbt-violence/docview/1881096054/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 15, 2017

Last updated: 2023-07-11

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Rep. Lipinski's votes on LGBT issues

Author: Simonette, Matt

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rep-lipinskis-votes-on-lgbt-issues/docview/1871544755/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Lipinski voted in support of a GOP version of a bill that would have stripped expanded language on protections for gays, lesbians and illegal aliens in a domestic violence bill. 2014:

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=22&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2017-02-15&amp;atitle=Rep.+Lipinski%27s+votes+on+LGBT+issues&amp;au=Simonette%2C+Matt&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=22&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2017-02-15&amp;atitle=Rep.+Lipinski%27s+votes+on+LGBT+issues&amp;au=Simonette%2C+Matt&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski has the lowest score of any House Democrat on Human Rights Campaign's (HRC) Congressional Rating Index. Among the actions Lipinski has taken, and statements he's made, on LGBT-rights, are the following, according to HRC:
2006: Lipinski voted "present" on a Constitutional Amendment prohibiting marriage equality. Lipinski dismissed the amendment as a Republican ploy at the time, but publicly emphasized his opposition to same-sex marriage.
2007: Lipinski voted against H.R. 3685, the Employment Non-Discrimination Act Of 2007 (ENDA).
2009: Lipinski voted in favor of the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act.
2010: Lipinski voted to repeal the military's anti-gay "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" policy. He said at the time that a congressional repeal was needed so that the military would not be disrupted by a more sudden repeal in the courts.
2011: Lipinski was one of nine Democrats who voted to uphold the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA).
2011: Lipinski Voted in favor of an amendment to the Defense Appropriations Bill which stated, "No funds under the act may be used for activities in contravention of ... the Defense of Marriage Act."
2011: When speaking about DOMA to Chicago Sun-Times, Lipinski said, "'I do not support same-sex marriage. ... [DOMA] protects the longstanding tradition of marriage, and serves as a strong commitment by the federal government to protecting the core values of this country in any future policymaking decisions."
2013: Lipinski cosponsored an early bill similar to the First American Defense Act (FADA) legislation. The Marriage and Religious Freedom Act would have prohibited retaliation through the federal tax code against individuals or institutions that exercised "religious conscience regarding marriage as the union of one man and one woman."
2013: Lipinski voted in support of a GOP version of a bill that would have stripped expanded language on protections for gays, lesbians and illegal aliens in a domestic violence bill.
2014: In an Illinois Family Institute Voter guide, Lipinski said he supported a marriage amendment defining marriage as between one man and one woman, as well as legislation that prohibited the Justice Department from undermining DOMA. Lipinski also said that he opposed ENDA.
2015: Lipinski was the only Democrat who co-sponsored FADA.
2015: Lipinski voted "present" on an amendment reinforcing the Obama order protecting LGBT employees of federal contractors.

Subject: Same sex marriage; Gays & lesbians; Sexual orientation discrimination; Appropriations; Noncitizens

Business indexing term: Subject: Appropriations

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Rep. Lipinski's votes on LGBT issues

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 22

Pages: 6

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2017

Publication date: Feb 15, 2017

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1871544755

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rep-lipinskis-votes-on-lgbt-issues/docview/1871544755/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 15, 2017

Last updated: 2023-06-26

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

The next wave

Author: Baim, Tracy

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/next-wave/docview/1876042548/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [...]we are working to piggyback the annual Peggy Notebaert Volunteer Expo Feb. 26 to make sure to push for volunteers to the groups that helped support the marches. [...]some of the absolute worst that I have experienced has come from people within the community, not outside of it.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=19&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=12&amp;date=2017-01-25&amp;atitle=The+next+wave&amp;au=Baim%2C+Tracy&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=19&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=12&amp;date=2017-01-25&amp;atitle=The+next+wave&amp;au=Baim%2C+Tracy&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Ever since the early morning hours of Nov. 9, 2016-when it was clear that our country elected an incompetent, inexperienced, sexist, racist, homophobic, transphobic, xenophobic, Islamophobic and admitted sex offender to be the 45th president of the United States of America-I have been barely able to write anything more than social-media posts.
I have spent the time since that date doing more "acting" than writing. But I think I have my voice back.
For 33 years, I have covered the LGBTQ community, and the mainstream Chicago world. Sometimes my journalism work, and my work as a publisher, parallels a need to also act, whether that was doing the March on Springfield for Marriage Equality, the summit on youth homelessness, tiny homes or the Gay Games in 2006.
This time, it was being part of the leadership of the Women's March on Chicago.
The three co-chairs of the march-Ann Scholhamer, Liz Radford and Jessica Scheller-were extremely open to including myself and others as part of their leadership team. The three of them were new to this type of organizing, and they quickly built up a collaborative team around them to create a stellar march that brought together 250,000 women and their allies to downtown Chicago Jan. 21, part of more than 600 marches around the world that attracted millions of people.
The same openness was true of the Illinois delegation to the March on Washington-Mrinalini Chakraborty, Leni Manaa-Hoppenworth, Amanda Drenth, Amanda Jane Long, Julie List and Amber Hummel.
More than a 100 Chicago-area organizations- some nonprofit, some political-also helped. From experienced groups including Chicago Women Take Action, NOW, Planned Parenthood, Operation PUSH, Pride Action Tank and SEIU Healthcare to newer groups and many individuals, the marches attracted an incredible team.
I know that for some of the people I cover and work with, they wonder why many people have not marched in the streets for the injustices that occurred even under President Obama. There were immigrants in horrible detention centers, deportations, and much injustice the past eight years, most of it not under his control, but still happening, from police violence to under-resourced communities. Not everyone benefitted from the successes under Obama, and Obama himself was strangled by the GOP-we should have been in the streets against the GOP long ago.
But we are here now, so we need to respond. Perhaps this catastrophe's main benefit will be in bringing people together across the movements, from Black Lives Matter and Black Youth Project 100 to trans and LGBTQ rights, healthcare, homelessness, raising the minimum wage, immigrant justice, gun violence and many inter-connected issues.
Forward movement
So how do we move forward?
There are dozens if not hundreds of new national and local groups created to respond to the new American order. But we also can't forget that there are existing institutions with great resources that can also be marshaled.
There will be no one right way to dismantle this horror. Likely most of the 250,000 people at Chicago's march, and the thousands of Illinoisans who went to D.C., are already engaged in some form of activism. It may be just online, or with a religious or school group, but right now, everything matters. At the very least, they have a network of friends and family they can help activate.
In addition, the organizations that did the marches have assets-including their access to attendees who signed up for their social media accounts. In fact, we are working to piggyback the annual Peggy Notebaert Volunteer Expo Feb. 26 to make sure to push for volunteers to the groups that helped support the marches.
So using all of these networks will be key to fight the regime. But some of this work should be done regardless of who occupies the White House, because the needs are so great on the ground in all 50 states. The federal government is not the only solution to the problems facing Chicagoans-it is only part of what is needed. So now that it will likely abdicate its responsibilities and privatize much of what should be government's role in the safety net, it's going to be up to well-resourced people and groups to help those who do not have access to resources.
Here are a few ideas:
-Wealthy progressives, and anyone with disposable income, need to step up to the plate more than they ever have. They need to look beyond their social circles, and typical nonprofits they back, to a long list of social justice and social service groups. Get out of your comfort zone and give money to the Fight for $15, to Black Lives Matter, BYP100, the Immigrant Youth Justice League, Pride Action Tank, SEIU Healthcare, Planned Parenthood, Chicago Survivors, domestic violence and homeless groups, among many others. There will also be new groups, such as Rise Movement-explore, explore, explore, for the new and innovative, and the tried and true.
-Politics is both national and local. The Democratic Party has always felt like a factory system, where you "do your time" and you get rewarded with that next open seat. That process has not created a deep pool of candidates that can speak to the people, and crush the gerrymandering attempts of the GOP. To "rise up" the party must have a better way to allow for innovation, for charismatic, passionate candidates and leadership who don't play by the old rules, who can attract new voters and bring life back into the party.
-The relatively new tools of social media can be exploited in great ways to help social-justice and social-service groups. We have not done a good job of coalition building in the past because each group often is very proprietary of their connections to money and other assets. This has to stop. No one is asking for the massive institutions to give away their email lists. But wouldn't it be great for the institutions to work together to better cross promote events and needs to lesser-resourced groups?
Here are some examples. The Women's March on Chicago and the Illinois delegation to D.C. have large social media followings. In addition, many groups supported these efforts, and they each have followings on social media. A cross-promotion of fundraising could happen for the groups. Yes, there would be limitations based on some groups being non-partisan, but I am mainly talking about social justice groups and services, not candidates and political action committees.
So, here is how it could work. Each week, for 52 weeks a year, every partner group agrees to promote an online fundraising campaign for the selected social justice groups that week. The emphasis being on smaller groups (maybe one large and two small social justice groups each week). In addition, everyone would agree to post a list of actions happening among these groups, to all of their social media channels. This could be an anti-violence or immigration-rights protest, or a march in front of a religious institution that has been vandalized, or a push for a responsible budget in Illinois. Partners could "opt out" if the action violates their nonprofit status.
Why should larger and smaller groups do this, when it might cut into their own efforts? First, I believe firmly that when you help others you help yourself. That is true for individuals, businesses and nonprofits. When I see Planned Parenthood or Lambda Legal helping others, or working in coalition, I am much more likely to support them. Second, we are in a time now where we must lift all boats. All means all. If funds are being cut to all domestic violence services in Illinois, we need a statewide call to action and fundraising. Same for youth homeless services. And for acting up when there is a police shooting against an unarmed young African-American on Chicago's South Side.
This is what being a good ally is all about.
-Corporations that value their employees and customers must also figure out a way to be part of the solution. During the battle for LGBTQ rights, corporate allies have played an increasing role of support, and clout. They have helped fight against anti-LGBTQ legislation, some going so far as to boycott cities and states doing bad deeds. They must now look to expand this social justice mission to other areas where they can have influence-which is almost everywhere. Now that corporations are "people," they have a much louder voice in politics, and we as consumers can pressure them to use that voice for good (while at the same time fighting the notion that they are people!). Corporations, and their employee resources groups, also can move on social justice issues, raising funds, and providing free talent and resources, to numerous issues under attack.
-Some religious organizations have always been social justice-oriented. But many others do little to nothing to provide money, space or other resources to issues outside of their geographic zones. Even within their zones, many do not provide help to those most in need. All need to step it up, and that could mean with food, space for meetings, shelter, fundraising or political action.
I could go on and on with ideas, but I will leave more for another day.
Staying active in the resistance
I have been fighting for social justice since high school and college, but especially since 1984, when I started work in LGBTQ media. I have seen many activists and groups come and go, some quickly, some that last many years. I have been asked about my ability to stay connected without a break in 33 years. (I guess this is my Jesus year of official activism/journalism.)
First, it is not for everyone. Some people have a huge spark and give their all for one to three years, and then they have to check out for valid reasons.
Second, some of the absolute worst that I have experienced has come from people within the community, not outside of it. The outside forces are usually a nebulous entity without specific form. But those inside a community have the ability to really de-motivate and do damage to their peers, like crabs in a tank who don't work together to get out, but pull each other down. You can't let that get to you-move on to a different organization if some peer-to-peer work is damaging.
Third, do not think you can do it all. I work deeply on some issues, and then support others in more surface ways. I care about so many issues (LGBTQ and otherwise), but I know I can't help them all. But I can do small things for every issue, even if it's a tweet, or going to an event or protest.
Fourth, and I can't emphasize this one enough, I love what I do, and I have a lot of fun doing it. I have met incredible people through all of these projects, including recently with these two march groups. You have to enjoy it, and have some fun, to sustain. This work can nourish you and make you feel connected and vital. If you don't love it, leave it.
Finally, assess what you really have to give, both in time and money, and divide it the best way you can. Even $5 a week to a small group means a lot, or one hour a month can help another.
Right now, everyone needs to dig deep. Deep can be $1 or $1 million. Deep can be one hour a month or 10 hours a week. It can be anything you are able to do-just do something.

Subject: Domestic violence; Social justice; Political parties; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Republican Party; NAICS: 813940; Name: Planned Parenthood; NAICS: 621410, 813319

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: The next wave

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 19

Pages: 12,18

Number of pages: 2

Publication year: 2017

Publication date: Jan 25, 2017

Section: viewpoints

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1876042548

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/next-wave/docview/1876042548/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jan 25, 2017

Last updated: 2023-07-11

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

BILLY Masters

Author: Masters, Billy

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/billy-masters/docview/1876043470/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [...]the athletic anchor shows off his exercise regime in Muscle & Fitness magazine-a periodical I don't believe ever featured the physigues of Tom Brokaw or Dan Rather. [...]one day his parents discovered the box.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=18&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=29&amp;date=2017-01-18&amp;atitle=BILLY+Masters&amp;au=Masters%2C+Billy&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=18&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=29&amp;date=2017-01-18&amp;atitle=BILLY+Masters&amp;au=Masters%2C+Billy&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   "I'm going to give America a happy ending. "- The newest Bachelor, Nick Viall, discusses his hopes for love the fourth time around. I'm gonna hold him to that.
I'm disappointed in Jennifer Holliday. For those of you who may be out of the loop, Donald Trump is having a devil of a time booking performers for the inauguration. An inguiry went out to the Dreamgirls star. While she was considering it, people on the internet immediately went on the attack. "They were calling me coon, calling me house n-, calling me Aunt Jemima, calling me all kinds of names and asking me to kill myself," she said. I personally saw dozens of vile posts, specifically from members of the LGBT community. People were saying things like she'll never work in our community again, that the gays made her career and they will destroy it. One memorable post said, "Remember what we did to Donna Summer." Ominous indeed.
I assume people who would perform at this inauguration fall into two categories: 1) people who support and voted for Trump, and 2) people who need the money and/or exposure. Holliday went out of her way to say she did not fall into either category. She publicly stated that she voted for Hillary. She said she wanted to sing for America. She wanted to help heal the divide. Her fee would be donated to LGBT charities. Her inspiration was Marian Anderson, the Black opera singer who gave a concert in 1939 at the foot of the Lincoln Memorial to more than 75,000 on the National Mall after being denied the opportunity to sing in an auditorium because of her race. Anderson didn't buckle down under hate-she went forward. But despite Holliday's best intentions, she was met with vitriolic hate from all sides and was essentially bullied to not perform. She apologized specifically to the LGBT community for even considering to perform "for America," and ended her address with this: "Thank you for your posted comments, both the good supportive ones as well as the ugly hurtful ones." When we went low, she went high.
Thomas Roberts' show at MSNBC has come to an end. The show was taken off the air with little fanfare on Dec. 16. The show was a replacement for Ronan Farrow's short-lived endeavor. Interestingly enough, Farrow filled in on the Today show over the holidays, so who knows what's ahead for Roberts. In the meantime, the athletic anchor shows off his exercise regime in Muscle & Fitness magazine-a periodical I don't believe ever featured the physigues of Tom Brokaw or Dan Rather. See the sizzling centerfold on Billy Ma sters.com.
A law was just passed in France making it illegal for parents to spank their children. Now, I'm not advocating spanking in general-but sometimes a kid needs a good whack. Apparently the French Parliament disagrees with me and has issued a nationwide ban on all forms of "corporal punishment." Instead of hitting, parents should try "positive reinforcement." Yeah, and we should also give a trophy to everyone for just showing up!
Do you know who Nico Tortorella is? He's a kinda hot actor who appears on Younger and has come out as sexually fluid-so I guess we now have to add an F to the already cumbersome LGBTQIA; he also has a podcast called "The Love Bomb." A recent guest was someone who knows a thing or two about sexual fluids-gay-porn actor Colby Keller. Colby shared his coming-out story with Nico. As a kid, Keller had a box of gay porn under his bathroom sink. Let's stop right there- did Colby grow up having his own bathroom-or was he stupid enough to hide gay porn in the family bathroom? Anyway, one day his parents discovered the box. Colby barricaded himself in his bedroom-shades of "Les Miz." Through the door, his father expressed support for his son and said "everything he could in the language that he possessed to try and comfort me and make it okay for me." Then it was time for his mother. She said, "I wish I had a gun so I could kill you and then blow my own brains out all over this sofa." Colby says his mom had very strong Christian beliefs. After that incident, Keller stopped calling her "mother." Perhaps she would have answered to the term "defendant."
Gay-porn star Tyce Jax (legal name Jared Louis Valazguez) was recently arrested for beating, choking and biting his boyfriend. What caused the fight? Tyce caught his boyfriend watching-wait for it-gay porn! I'm speechless. This is the FIFTH domestic violence charge for Jax/ Valazguez. As Judge Judy would say, "He's a real winner!"
You know how they say that when you sleep with someone, you're sleeping with everyone they ever slept with? Last week, I went to bed with one number and by the time I woke up, poof, it went up by 500!
Our "Ask Billy" guestion comes from Henry in Florida. "I was binge-watching Girls and saw this hot scruffy actor, Evan Jonigkeit. He did a sex scene, but you couldn't see anything. I think you wrote about him before."
Yes, I wrote about Jonigkeit several times in 2012 when he was touring the country with Kathleen Turner in Matthew Lombardo's play High. At the time, I was guite taken with his range of acting. I wasn't the only one. When I interviewed Turner (who played a nun), all she wanted to do was talk about him. She said, "I think Evan's one of the most exciting young actors around. I eguate him with Jude Law, who I worked with on Broadway in Indiscretions. Evan is guite extraordinary. He's got it." He also appeared nude in the play and was guite hot. And then, as if a gift from the Lord, video of his nude scene appeared in my inbox. You may not have seen all of him on Girls, but you can on BillyMasters.com.
When heaven is a place on Earth, it's definitely time to end yet another column. And don't forget to check out www.BillyMasters.com-the site that features a wide assortment of heavenly bodies. If you've got a guestion for me on any topic, send it along to Billy@BillyMasters.com and I promise to get back to you before Trump appoints Jennifer Holliday as secretary of pancakes! So, until next time, remember: One man's filth is another man's bible.

Subject: Gays & lesbians

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: BILLY Masters

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 18

Pages: 29

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2017

Publication date: Jan 18, 2017

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1876043470

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/billy-masters/docview/1876043470/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jan 18, 2017

Last updated: 2023-07-11

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

First trans homicides of 2017 recorded

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/first-trans-homicides-2017-recorded/docview/1876040100/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: According to WPXI.com, Hake was killed in an officer-involved shooting after police responded to a domestic assault.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=17&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=7&amp;date=2017-01-11&amp;atitle=First+trans+homicides+of+2017+recorded&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=17&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=7&amp;date=2017-01-11&amp;atitle=First+trans+homicides+of+2017+recorded&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   The National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs (NCAVP) has learned of the homicide of Mesha Caldwell, a Black transgender woman who was killed in Canton, Mississippi on Jan. 4. She is the first recorded trans individual murdered in the United States in 2017.
According to Mic, she was initially misgendered by local press.
However, other trans individuals have been fatally attacked over December and early January. A transgender Virginia resident known to friends as India Monroe was killed on Dec. 21 in Newport News, Virginia-but was misgendered and identified by her birth name in news reports, Mic.com reported. The Newport News police are reportedly investigating Monroe's death as a domestic incident, not a hate crime.
In Pennsylvania, 23-year-old transgender man Sean Hake was fatally shot, according to PGHLesbian.com. Mercer County District Attorney Miles K. Karson Jr. said initially that he could not comment on the open investigation, and that he expected to release more information at a news conference, possibly on Jan. 11. According to WPXI.com, Hake was killed in an officer-involved shooting after police responded to a domestic assault.
In addition, South Dakota transgender woman Jamie Lee Wounded Arrow, 28, was found dead Jan. 6 in her apartment in an apparent homicide, LGBTQ Nation reported. Sioux Falls Two-Spirit and Allies noted that Wounded Arrow was originally from the Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota and was a member of the Oglala Lakota tribe.
NCAVP's most recent hate violence report, Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer and HIV-Affected Hate Violence in 2015, recorded 24 reported hate violence homicides of LGBTQ people-a 20-percent increase from the 20 reported anti-LGBTQ homicides in 2014.

Subject: Domestic violence; Criminal investigations; Transgender persons

Location: Virginia; South Dakota; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: First trans homicides of 2017 recorded

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 17

Pages: 7

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2017

Publication date: Jan 11, 2017

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1876040100

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/first-trans-homicides-2017-recorded/docview/1876040100/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jan 11, 2017

Last updated: 2023-07-11

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Religion and violence against women

Author: Patricca, Nick

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/religion-violence-against-women/docview/1851647009/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: My task was to conduct in-depth interviews with families in the area to determine their religious affiliations and their spiritual needs. After some preliminary chit-chat, she asked me if it was true that Catholic doctrine taught that a wife had to submit to the sexual demands of her husband under any and all circumstances whether she wanted to have sex or not. I was stunned. I had never in all my years of theological training encountered this question.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=12&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=4&amp;date=2016-12-07&amp;atitle=Religion+and+violence+against+women&amp;au=Patricca%2C+Nick&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=12&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=4&amp;date=2016-12-07&amp;atitle=Religion+and+violence+against+women&amp;au=Patricca%2C+Nick&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   In the early 1960s, when I was in pastoral training in Oil City and in Elwood City, Pennsylvania, I met a woman who changed my world.
My task was to conduct in-depth interviews with families in the area to determine their religious affiliations and their spiritual needs. After some preliminary chit-chat, she asked me if it was true that Catholic doctrine taught that a wife had to submit to the sexual demands of her husband under any and all circumstances whether she wanted to have sex or not. I was stunned. I had never in all my years of theological training encountered this question. Almost without thinking, I reactively said: "That is not sex; it is RAPE." She replied: "My confessor says that I must have sex with my husband whenever he wants it."
I took this question to my supervisor, an old Irish priest, who affirmed my judgment on the matter. But, he added: "Unfortunately, too many priests believe and teach this justification of sexual abuse."
His affirmation of my opinion was small consolation because I realized I could not really help this woman. There was no way I could offer her any real support through the Catholic Church or any other agency available to me at that time.
In the following weeks, I came to understand that this woman's story was not exceptional: many women suffered sexual abuse because of this perverse understanding of marriage in Christian traditions, in some cases based on an interpretation of the thinking of Paul as stated in Corinthians 7:3-6. These understandings had been codified into our legal system under the rubrics of 'spousal exemptions' and 'marital rights,' and other legal formulations of the issue of sexual violence in marriage which seemed to preclude the possibility of rape in marriage.
My encounter with this woman set me off on my own journey into the meaning of human sexuality and sexual freedom.
Religion has three essential functions in society: 1) to conserve and protect the traditional morals and customs; 2) to critique and reform the traditional morals and customs; and 3) to break open traditional forms for creating new morals and customs. In practice, the first function of religion-to conserve and protect the traditional mores-usually dominates.
Honor Killings (the right of male members of a family to kill female members who are perceived to bring shame on the family), Sati (the duty of the widow to throw herself on the funeral pyre of her husband), Patriarchy (unconstrained male domination of women and children), for examples, are cultural values made sacred by religious authority.
Violence against women, often sanctioned by religion, is a worldwide pandemic, systematic rather than episodic, structural rather than incidental. The statistics are overwhelming and hard to absorb: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ Violence_against_women .
Two hundred million women have undergone female genital mutilation; 700 million women were married as children and/or forced into marriages; women and girls constitute 70% of human traffic victims; at least 35% of women have endured sexual and physical abuse. (SEE: United Nations: Ending Violence Against Women and Girls.)
In Pakistan, honor killings are epidemic (BBC 01 April 2016 https://goo.gl/GYZakm ), official data indicates 1,100 such murders in 2015. In Mexico, sexual violence is used by civil and military authorities to socially control women (Amnesty International 28 June 2016 https://goo. gl/BKI7vW )
Violence against women is a political tool to silence women writers and activists.
Nov. 25, 2016, International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women began a 16-day focus on initiatives to stop violence against women (through Dec. 10). Violence-especially sexual violence-against women is used as a political tool to keep women writers and activists silent. Every year outstanding women are murdered to silence their voices. This year the Honduran indigenous environmental activist Berta Caceres was assassinated in her home after years of threats on her life. Many people and organizations knew that the life of Berta Caceres was in jeopardy but could not find a way to save her. The same was true for Anna Politkovskaya, the great Russian journalist. These women knew that their murders were only a matter of time. It seems that the only way to save such heroic women is for them to silence themselves.
Particular cases can be overwhelming and statistics can be mind-numbing. We must keep in mind that each single number is one human person. We must not fail to act. In our own country, we must work to make our religious traditions resources for the education, liberation, and empowerment of women.
Each woman or girl has her story to tell. We must learn to listen.
Sidebar "His affirmation of my opinion was small consolation because I realized I could not really help this woman. There was no way I could offer her any real support through the Catholic Church or any other agency available to me at that time."
AuthorAffiliation @nicholas.patricca@gmail.com
Nick Patricca is professor emeritus at Loyola university Chicago, president of Chicago Network and playwright emeritus at Victory Gardens Theater.

Subject: Women; Domestic violence; Sex crimes; Catholic churches; Sexuality; Freedoms

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Religion and violence against women

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 12

Pages: 4

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2016

Publication date: Dec 7, 2016

Section: Open To Thinking

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 1851647009

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/religion-violence-against-women/docview/1851647009/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Dec 7, 2016

Last updated: 2023-07-11

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Gaylon Alcaraz's radical journey

Author: Wasserman, Melissa

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gaylon-alcarazs-radical-journey/docview/1852721523/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: I'm a radical," said [Gaylon Alcaraz]. "I'm not a traditionalist and a lot of these non-for-profit organizations are very traditional and capitalist; and that's not who I am. One of the main things that Project Fierce does is we do not take any governmental grants because of the capitalism. They brought this building out right from fundraising and I am drawn to that. That is a new way to look at the world around us. We don't need capitalism.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=9&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=7&amp;date=2016-11-23&amp;atitle=Gaylon+Alcaraz%27s+radical+journey&amp;au=Wasserman%2C+Melissa&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=9&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=7&amp;date=2016-11-23&amp;atitle=Gaylon+Alcaraz%27s+radical+journey&amp;au=Wasserman%2C+Melissa&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Gaylon Alcaraz is a self-described radical. An activist in different capacities, she is passionate about certain topics, most of which she has what she has experienced herself. What they all have in common is social justice.
"I'm not the type of person that can sit back and watch stuff happen and not do anything about it," said Alcaraz. "I don't agree with that logic. How can you want some change or you're going to complain, but you're not going to step up and contribute your voice to it. I've always just been very vocal. All human beings have the right to live in a just society."
Alcaraz grew up in different parts of Chicago, having lived on the South and North sides. Part of her radical nature formed when she was a student at Queen of Peace High School in Burbank, Illinois. It was her late father's wishes that she went there and her mother saw it through. She said she was one of about 30 Black girls at the school.
"That contributed to who I am today and in terms of how I view racism and privilege and class and society," said Alcaraz, feeling glad her parents made her go to Queen of Peace.
Alcaraz added that, during the same period of time, seeing her mother having difficulty in finding stable, affordable housing was the other entry point of her activism.
She has taken this passion to her position as a consultant doing non-for-profit management with Project Fierce Chicago. She started as the organization's project administrator in July 2016. Project Fierce Chicago is a grassroots collective of radical social workers, youth advocates and other community members who work to create community-driven and identityaffirming housing in Chicago.
"This is about providing transitional housing for LGBTQ youth," said Alcaraz about Project Fierce Chicago. "I wanted to be a part of that. Housing is a right and everybody deserves housing. Some of the most marginalized and vulnerable people lack safe housing. So, to come to a project where there's all these radicals, these activists, these social workers, these amazing LGBTQ people thinking and envisioning something different like reimaging how housing could look-I wanted to be involved with that."
Alcaraz added she is doing everything in her power to raise money for the organization, which includes writing grants, using her networking and fundraising background.
"I'm a radical," said Alcaraz. "I'm not a traditionalist and a lot of these non-for-profit organizations are very traditional and capitalist; and that's not who I am. One of the main things that Project Fierce does is we do not take any governmental grants because of the capitalism. They brought this building out right from fundraising and I am drawn to that. That is a new way to look at the world around us. We don't need capitalism. It can be another way; we have to reimagine what that looks like. I like the fact that they're radical, they're non-conforming, they're non-traditional, and they're just doing little bit by little bit to make this major change and this shift in how we think."
Alcaraz is a founding board member of Affinity Community Services. She was also executive director of the Chicago Abortion Fund for almost 10 years. There, she worked within the reproductive justice/rights/health movement, advocating for low-income women looking to control their reproductive freedom. Being in that position, she said, was a learning experience and it gave her the opportunity to stand up for women's reproductive rights.
"Anywhere that I see a need, I try to jump into it," said Alcaraz of the work she does with various organizations.
In the last few years, Alcaraz has gotten her bachelor's and master's degrees. Currently, she is in her second year at National Louis University, earning her doctorate.
Even in the informal sense, Alcaraz explained how she practices her activism, saying, "The personal is political." The mother of two adult children (and grandmother of one) said it happened when her daughter wanted to join the Girl Scouts as a child. Alcaraz remembered every troop being all white, and she wanted her daughter to have positive images of herself. That was when Alcaraz decided to go through the troop leader training, start her own troop and be the positive image for her daughter.
Alcaraz's self-published book Tales of a Woojiehead is about her thoughts and experiences. One of the main stories of the book, she pointed out, is her being a survivor of domestic abuse.
Adding to her personal accomplishments, Alcaraz has gone through her own journey. Her weight loss journey began four and a half years ago and she has since lost about 150 pounds. This past October, she completed the Bank of America Chicago Marathon. This was her third marathon, having run two others in 2014. This one, however, was dear to her heart, as she was running in her hometown. She also felt pressed to give it her all.
"I know our time on this Earth is fleeting and so you should be able to live how you want to live, which has played out in my entire life around my activism," said Alcaraz.
Pushing through some health-related obstacles, she finished the race running. During the race, she got a special shout-out, over the speakers, from the announcer. She described when she heard the marathon watchers cheering for her from that announcement, she knew she couldn't stop. Getting emotional, she shared that it was difficult, but she would not allow herself to be photographed crossing the finish line walking.
During her journey, she has joined a few running groups that she calls her running family and she has become a running coach at Fleet Feet.
"I think the most important thing is to be in the moment," said Alcaraz on what advice she would give to others undergoing a journey. "Experience and be in the moment. We don't have to be on anyone's timetable. It's a journey."

Subject: Activists; Social justice; Personal profiles

People: Alcaraz, Gaylon

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Gaylon Alcaraz's radical journey

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 9

Pages: 7

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2016

Publication date: Nov 23, 2016

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1852721523

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gaylon-alcarazs-radical-journey/docview/1852721523/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Nov 23, 2016

Last updated: 2023-07-11

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

COMMUNITY CALENDAR

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/community-calendar/docview/1844209709/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Queer Genre Fiction Book Discussion Group A discussion of Breakfast On Pluto by Patrick McCabe. Bring yourself, a friend, and make few new ones. 7:00pm ^Gerber Hart Library and Archives 6500 N Clark St Chicago https://www.facebook. com/events/381222225601229/

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=7&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=37&amp;date=2016-11-09&amp;atitle=COMMUNITY+CALENDAR&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=7&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=37&amp;date=2016-11-09&amp;atitle=COMMUNITY+CALENDAR&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Wed., Nov. 9
LGBT Hall of Fame induction ceremony Twelve individuals, two organizations, and two friends of the community have been selected for induction into the Chicago LGBT Hall of Fame, the organization which honors and celebrates notable members of Chicago's LGBT communities.Reception 5:30pm. Program 6pm. Free and open to the public. 5:30pm - 7:30pm Chicago History Museum 1601 N Clark Chicago http:// chicagoLGBTHALLOfFame.org
Fun Home opening night Based on Alison Bechdel's best-selling graphic memoir. Nov. 2 through Nov. 13. 7:30pm Ford Center Oriental Theatre 24 W Randolph St Chicago http://www.broadwayinchicago.com/show/fun-home/
Resolution - A Queer Vintage Thriller! World premiere from Pride Films and Plays. New Year's Eve, New York City, 1892. High-society husband and wife Jack and Hannah make their resolutions for the coming year - but a discovery may change everything. Through Nov. 20 7:30pm Rivendell Theater, 5779 N. Ridge Ave., Chicago http://pridefilmsandplays.com Tickets: http://bit.ly/ resolutiontix
TransMale Indulgence TransMale Chicago and Jackhammer team up to bring you TransMale Indulgence: A night for Gay Transmen and Men interested in them second Wednesday of each month. DJ, free pizza at 10pm. Transmale porn. The Hole will be open at 11pm for transmale cruising. 8:00pm - 12:00pm Jackhammer 6406 N Clark St Chicago
Thursday, Nov. 10
Chicago in Focus: Election Day, What Just Happened? Quarterly discussion of all things Chicago sponsored by the League of Woman Voters of Chicago and the Urban League Club of Chicago. Speaker: Dick Simpson, Professor, Political Science Department, University of Illinois at Chicago; Author, Winning Elections in the 21st Century. Free. Reservations by calling LWVChicago at 312-939-5949 or emailing League@ LWVChicago.org. 5:00pm - 7:00pm The Union League Club, 65 West Jackson Blvd., Chicago http://lwvchicago. org/Chicago_in_Focus.html
Kris Allen Free Holiday Concert at Fashion Outlets American Idol Season Eight winner will perform his new Christmas album "Somethin' About Christmas. Guests can help the "Help through Holiday Giving" toy drive by bringing an unwrapped toy 7:30pm Fashion Outlets of Chicago,5220 Fashion Outlets Way, Rosemont http://www. fashionoutletsofchicago.com/Events/Details/390035
Book Reading and Signing, Jessica Luther. Unsportsmanlike Conduct: College Football and the Politics of Rape This event is co-sponsored by the Domestic Violence Legal Clinic of Chicago. 7:30pm Women & Children First Bookstore 5233 N Clark St Chicago http:// www.womenandchildrenfirst.com/ event/author-reading-jessica-lutherunsportsmanlike-conduct
Friday, Nov. 11
I Am My Own Wife Based on the true story of Charlotte von Mahlsdorf (born Lothar Berfelde) who, against all odds, hid from the Nazi and Communist regimes in East Berlin in plain sight dressed as a woman. Feature transgender actress Delia Kropp and three additional actors. The new production will frame Charlotte's story through a transgender lens. Through Dec. 10. About Face Theater 7:30pm Theater Wit 1229 W Belmont Ave. Chicago Tickets: https://www.theaterwit.org/tickets/productions/291/ performances#top
American Veterans for Equal Rights (AVER) Veterans' Day Dinner 6:30 cocktails; 7:15 presenting of colors, national anthem, welcome; 8:15pm dinner, awards. Featured speaker Bridget Altenburg, a graduate of West Point and COO of the National Able Network. Performing America the Beautiful Trish Keporos, Windy City Gay Idol winner 2014. AVER events throughout 201 honor the service of military and veteran women. 6:30pm Ann Sather - Belmont 909 W Belmont Ave Chicago; http://www. averchicago.org
Queer Genre Fiction Book Discussion Group A discussion of Breakfast On Pluto by Patrick McCabe. Bring yourself, a friend, and make few new ones. 7:00pm ^Gerber Hart Library and Archives 6500 N Clark St Chicago https://www.facebook. com/events/381222225601229/
OPALGA November Potluck Monthly gathering of Oak Parkers 7:00pm Contact organizer for location https://www.facebook.com/events/625905137581987/
Saturday, Nov. 12
Depression & Bipolar Support Alliance (LGBTQ) Support meeting to talk about illnesses, symptoms, treatment, doctors, and personal issues such as dating, relationships and work. Every Saturday. 11:00am - 12:30am Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted Chicago http://dbsaglbt-chicago.com
HRC Chicago Gala and Auction The Human Rights Campaign Chicago Dinner Gala is one of the largest annual LGBT fundraising events in the Midwest. Special performance by Ty Herndon. Special guest Mary Beth Maxwell, HRC SVP Programs Research & Training. Awardees are Amy Landecker, Ally for Equality Award; Angelica Ross, Visibility Award; MillerCoors, Corporate Equality Award; and Dana Goldberg, comedienne and special guest 5:00pm Hyatt Regency Chicago 151 E Wacker Dr.; https://www.facebook.com/events/1092000484172243/ Tickets: https://www.boxofficetickets. com/go/date?id=2119293
Dare to Dream Awards Banquet and Fundraising Benefit Auction Celebrate two outstanding advocates and raise funds for many more years of social service solely dedicated to supporting LGBTQ+ youth. 6:00pm Fox Valley Country Club, 2500 N. Route 25, Aurora http:// www.biddingowl.com/Auction/home. cfm?auctionID=8599
Sunday, Nov. 13
Project Fierce Chicago's 3rd Annual Breakfast N Beds Funderaiser Help provide safe and affirming housing for LGBTQ young people experiencing ^homelessness by joining Project Fierce Chicago. Performances by local artists, food, drinks, silent auction, great raffle. Ticket on a sliding scale: $30, $50, $70. No one will be turned away for lack of funds. 1:00pm - 4:00pm Segundo Ruiz Belvis Cultural Center, 4048 W. Armitage Ave., Chicago https://www.flipcause. com/secure/cause_pdetails/MTEyMzI=
A Salute to Chicago Lakeside Pride Symphonic Band with music inspired by the City of Chicago and its history performed under the world-famous Louis Tiffany stained glass dome in Preston Bradley Hall. Presented by Calan Corporation 3:00pm - 5:00pm Chicago Cultural Center 78 E. Washington St. Chicago
Queer Bits Fall Film Fest III Pride Films and Plays (PFP) presents short films 7:00pm The Public House Theatre 3914 N. Clark St. Chicago http://www. pridefilmsandplays.com
Tuesday, Nov. 15
After Orlando Staged readings of new plays written in response to the Pulse shooting. Part of an international playwright-driven theatre action including 70+ playwrights. Free. Donations welcome for Equality Florida, CALOR, and the Pride Arts Center. 7:00pm Pride Arts Center, 4139 N Broadway, Chicago, http://www.pridefilmsandplays.com
CHASING AMY
Saturday, Nov. 12
Amy Landecker will be among those honored at the HRC Chicago Gala and Auction.

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: COMMUNITY CALENDAR

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 7

Pages: 37

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2016

Publication date: Nov 9, 2016

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 1844209709

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/community-calendar/docview/1844209709/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Nov 9, 2016

Last updated: 2023-07-11

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Fused Muse brings audiences to 'Edge of Shelter'

Author: Hammond, Gretchen Rachel

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fused-muse-brings-audiences-edge-shelter/docview/1844209509/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Individual YEPP members were teamed with professional musicians from Chicago," [Iddo Aharony] said. "Each one created a new performative work based on life-experiences. This kind of collaborative work was new and we didn't know how or if it was going to work. Nobody knew what to expect in the first meeting where we had people of different socio-economic backgrounds, race and gender. Yet, for me, it was one of the most magical experiences I've ever had.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=7&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=27&amp;date=2016-11-09&amp;atitle=Fused+Muse+brings+audiences+to+%27Edge+of+Shelter%27&amp;au=Hammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=7&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=27&amp;date=2016-11-09&amp;atitle=Fused+Muse+brings+audiences+to+%27Edge+of+Shelter%27&amp;au=Hammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   In her essay What Are You Afraid Of?, Fused Muse performer, cellist and Kontras Quartet founding member Jean Hatmaker wrote, "We can all get sucked into bad cycles-patterns of fortune that throw a wrench in our best laid plans.
"The difference between making it out or not comes down to the resources we have available to us. Resources aren't only money, they include physical safety, mental stability, control, health, being around people who understand us. Unfortunately, these resources are not evenly or fairly distributed, because we don't get to choose how, where, or to whom we are born. And we can't anticipate the physical or emotional challenges we may face in our lives."
While national and state campaigns are utilizing a combination of federal and philanthropic resources alongside the work of advocacy groups in ending youth homelessness by 2020, Chicago-based Fused Muse will use the even more influential medium of art to put a human face on homelessness and, so, raise a compelling awareness about the need for the final curtain to come down on its horror.
In Edge of Shelter, to be performed Nov. 1819 at the Fourth Presbyterian Church in Chicago's Near North Side, Fused Muse, in collaboration with Youth Empowerment Performance Project (YEPP); Chicago Lights; Harmony, Hope & Healing; and students of DePaul University will ask Hatmaker's question through a visceral tapestry of music, dance, film and the spoken word.
The seamless combination of social justice and art is something the Fused Muse Ensemble has crafted since it was founded in 2009.
The group has tackled issues including domestic violence, the environment and human trafficking.
Fused Muse founder, executive director and co-artistic director Sophie Webber alongside co-artistic director Iddo Aharony have been actively engaged around the issue of homelessness for the past two years. Edge of Shelter is the culmination of that work.
"There's so many worthwhile causes out there, but this is something that resonated with the core members of the group," Webber told Windy City Times. "We were aware that homelessness is something that's so multilayered and complex."
Therefore, in order to tackle it, Webber and Aharony reached out to advocacy organizations, activists and fellow artists who were working with the issue. The duo wanted to ensure that the voices of the homeless were neither muffled in bullet points nor data but, through Edge of Shelter, could really be heard.
"Our starting point was to learn as much as we could learn," Aharony said. "We felt like complete outsiders but we wanted to amplify voices that are otherwise unheard and use the stage instead of the stigma. Our guiding principal was that each collaboration was based on a direct dialogue with individuals who have previously experienced homelessness or are experiencing it now. It was their stories, their perspectives that guided the creative work."
According to Fused Muse, that work will substitute stereotypes for a "human face and features new musical compositions, theatrical pieces, dance choreography and video works by acclaimed Chicago artists," including members of YEPP.
"It's been meaningful for everybody involved," Aharony noted. "Each of the pieces created for the project has a different perspective and message. We feel it makes a tiny crack in that wall of invisibility."
"It is the experience of homelessness we're interested in showing and having people see and hear," Webber added. "We believe the arts has the power to increase understanding and empathy, change hearts and minds and potentially galvanize communities in a call to social action."
According to Aharony, having organizations like YEPP (whose LGBTQ homeless youth ensemble has brought the reality of homelessness to audiences across the city in performances as moving as they are masterfully honest) as collaborators made the creative process behind Edge of Shelter all the more meaningful.
"Individual YEPP members were teamed with professional musicians from Chicago," Aharony said. "Each one created a new performative work based on life-experiences. This kind of collaborative work was new and we didn't know how or if it was going to work. Nobody knew what to expect in the first meeting where we had people of different socio-economic backgrounds, race and gender. Yet, for me, it was one of the most magical experiences I've ever had. There was a quick connection for everyone over the love of making art and expressing something together as human beings and empathizing with each other no matter what our different backgrounds."
It is this kind of empathy with which Fused Muse aims to address audiences for Edge of Shelter.
"It's easy to walk past somebody in the street and look the other way," Webber said. "It's not so easy if you think of them as being your friend or family member. So we are doing whatever we can to help bridge that divide."
For more information about Edge of Shelter and for tickets, visit FusedMuseEnsemble.com/edge-of-shelter.

Subject: Homeless people; Children & youth; Nonprofit organizations; Musical performances

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Fused Muse Ensemble; NAICS: 711110, 813319

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Fused Muse brings audiences to 'Edge of Shelter'

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 7

Pages: 27

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2016

Publication date: Nov 9, 2016

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1844209509

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fused-muse-brings-audiences-edge-shelter/docview/1844209509/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Nov 9, 2016

Last updated: 2023-07-11

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Dems triumph in Illinois races

Author: Simonette, Matt; Hammo nd, Gretchen Rachel

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dems-triumph-illinois-races/docview/1844208999/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: As President, I'll make fighting discrimination against the LGBT community a top priority-including by working with Congress to pass the Equality Act," [Hillary Rodham Clinton] said. "And we won't stop there. We'll also take on harassment, bullying, and violence-and youth homelessness, which disproportionately hurts LGBT kids.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=7&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2016-11-09&amp;atitle=Dems+triumph+in+Illinois+races&amp;au=Simonette%2C+Matt%3BHammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=7&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2016-11-09&amp;atitle=Dems+triumph+in+Illinois+races&amp;au=Simonette%2C+Matt%3BHammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   After months of the most turbulent electioneering in recent American history, it appeared that Donald J. Trump, as of press time, had defeated Hillary Rodham Clinton's bid to become the first female president of the United States. Associated Press called the election for Trump at about 2:30 a.m. EST on Nov. 9.
Clinton conceded to Trump at around the same time, according to reports. The New York Times reported that Trump won 276 electoral votes, while Clinton won 218.
In Illinois, Clinton won with 55.8 percent of the vote; Trump took 39.1 percent. According to the City of Chicago Board of Commissioners, Clinton took a whopping 83.6 percent of the vote in the city, while Trump took just 12.57 percent, with just over 95 percent of precincts reporting.
What a potential Trump victory means for the LGBT community is unclear. The candidate never launched any outright attacks on the LGBT community, but he promised to appoint Supreme Court justices who would overturn the 2015 decision on marriage equality. He also appointed Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, who was at the center of the disastrous implementation of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act in 2015, to be his vice-presidential running mate. Numerous members of the community were unsettled by Trump's frequent jabs at other minority communities and his contempt for the idea of political correctness as well.
Clinton courted the LGBT community from the beginning of her campaign. Gay Chicagoans Jared Milrad and Nathan Johnson were included in the April 2015 video that announced Clinton's run; the video, themed to how Americans were changing their lives, featured Milrad and Johnson speaking about their upcoming wedding. A lesbian couple from Los Angeles was included in the video as well.
In a Nov. 3, 2015, interview with Washington Blade, Clinton promised to "have the backs" of the LGBT community.
"As President, I'll make fighting discrimination against the LGBT community a top priority-including by working with Congress to pass the Equality Act," Clinton said. "And we won't stop there. We'll also take on harassment, bullying, and violence-and youth homelessness, which disproportionately hurts LGBT kids. We'll end the harmful practice of socalled 'conversion' therapy for minors, because LGBT kids don't need to be 'cured' of anything. And we'll bring people together to reform our gun laws and keep guns from falling into the wrong hands, so that what happened at Pulse never happens again."
National races
U.S. Rep. Tammy Duckworth unseated U.S. Sen. Mark Kirk with about 55 percent of the vote and will now represent Illinois in the Senate alongside Sen. Dick Durbin; Kirk had about 40 percent. His already floundering campaign was almost completely unhinged after he made a disparaging remark about Duckworth's ethnic background during a debate. Human Rights Campaign, which made a controversial endorsement for Kirk, rescinded its support and backed Duckworth just weeks before the election. Kirk conceded to Duckworth and promised a "beer summit" to launch a cordial transition.
In October, Duckworth told Windy City Times that the LGBT community would need to be vigilant in making sure that their rights are not rolled back.
"I feel like the LGBT community may feel like the struggles have been won, but I really think the struggles are just now starting at a low level ... where those people who oppose LGBT issues, and the reality of what it means to be equal, are going to work at [a local] level to change the system and introduce new laws," she said. "If we don't pay attention to them, they will spread across this country. It's the same as what we saw with reproductive rights-they've been going through state by state, enacting laws and regulations."
In the House, Raja Krishnamoorthi, a Democrat, takes over the 8th District seat that Duckworth vacated. He won with 58 percent of the vote; his opponent, Peter DiCianni obtained 42 percent.
Fifth District U.S. Rep. Mike Quigley (D) was among those re-elected, capturing about 68 percent of the vote and defeating Republican candidate Vince Kolber and Green Party candidate Rob Sherman. Quigley has been in office since 2009 and has been a longtime supporter of LGBT causes. He is vice-chair of the LGBT Equality Caucus and has advocated for the FDA to lift its ban on on blood donations from gay men. U.S. Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D), another longtime advocate for the LGBT community, whose husband has garnered negative publicity as of late, also defeated Republican challenger Joan McCarthy Lasonde's bid to represent the 9th District in the House with 60 percent of the vote.
In the 10th District, Democrat Brad Schneider retook his old seat from Republican incumbent Robert Dold. Schneider won with 52 percent of voters; Dold had 48 percent.
Local races
Cook County Court Clerk Dorothy Brown will keep her post, even though she lost the support of the Cook County Democratic Party after legal problems last year. Brown's opponent, Republican Diane Shapiro, maintained that the court clerk's office is woefully out of date and poorly run. But Brown nevertheless won with 66.9 percent of the vote.
Kim Foxx defeated Republican Christopher Pfannkuche to be the next Cook County state's attorney with 71.8 percent of the vote. Foxx, who will be the first African-American woman to fill that post, beat incumbent Anita Alvarez in the primaries after the office was shaken by controversy in late 2015. Foxx, who was previously chief of staff to Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle, received the backing of the Cook County Democratic Party in the primaries, as well as considerable financial backing from, among others, openly gay activist and businessman Fred Eychaner. Among her goals was a reduction in the Cook County Jail population and a more active engagement between county prosecutors and the community at large.
Karen Yarbrough ran unopposed as Cook County recorder of deeds.
Comptroller changes hands
It wasn't all bad news for Democrats.
The campaign between Chicago City Clerk Susana Mendoza (D) and incumbent and Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner appointee Leslie Geissler Munger was the most expensive in this year's election and widely seen as a proxy war between Rauner and House Speaker Mike Madigan (D). Millions were spent on blistering campaign ads whether accusing Mendoza of being Madigan's willing pawn or Munger as in league with Rauner and his agenda. Mendoza took a major win with nearly 50 percent of the vote at time of publication.
The shape of Springfield
A number of Republican challengers set out to try and reduce the House 71-47 Democratic majority. Most of them ran on campaigns decrying the Illinois budget impasse while putting their own ideas forward to stop it. However, for the most part, voters chose to send the incumbents back but each of those legislators reelected knows they are on notice to find a resolution to the state's finances as patience is running out for what has become widely viewed as a schoolyard brawl between Madigan and Rauner that has left the state's badly needed advocacy groups, social services and education bleeding to death.
All results are at time of publication.
Democrats retained the 10th District seat vacated by Pamela Reaves-Harris (D) with a decisive 84-percent win by Melissa Conyears over Republican challenger Mark Spognardi.
In the 11th District, incumbent Ann Williams (D) was sent back for another term. Despite the "increase revenues and decrease spending" argument of challenger Gary Mandell, Williams won with 71.6 percent of the vote.
In the 12th District, incumbent Sara Feigenholtz (D) easily took the win over Gene Witt with almost 76 percent of the vote.
Popular 13th District incumbent Greg Harris ran unopposed.
In the 14th District, Arthur Noah Seigel ran as an independent against popular incumbent Kelly Cassidy (D). His attempt at winning as an outside voice between two bickering parties ultimately failed with Cassidy taking neatly 85 percent of the vote.
In the 24th District, openly gay Republican Andy Kirchoff aimed to unseat long-time incumbent Elizabeth Hernandez (D). She prevailed with 79.4 percent of the vote.
Some races were not to be such a leisurely walk for the incumbents.
In Lake County's 62nd District Sam Yingling faced off for a second time against challenger Rod Drobinski (R) with the latter racking up some major media endorsements. In another squeaker, Yingling was narrowly returned to Springfield with 52.4 percent of the vote verses Drobinski's 47.6.
The Illinois Senate was never realistically going to fall into Republican hands. However, there were two seats available to a candidate from either party.
In the 22nd District, Democrat Michael Noland's open seat was the setting for a battle between Kane County Commissioner Cristina Castro (D) and her Republican challenger Tracy Smodilla. Castro took an almost 65 percent win.
Conversely, in the 58th District, the seat vacated by David Luechtefeld (R) was up for grabs and former Lt. Gov. Sheila Simon (D) fought a tough race against former marine Paul Schimpf to take it. In the end, Schimpf won with over 62 percent of the vote.
In a statement following the bulk of the Illinois results, a victorious Speaker Mike Madigan wrote "Voters stated clearly that they wish to maintain a wide Democratic majority in the Illinois House of Representatives and maintain a strong check on Bruce Rauner and his anti-middle class agenda. Voters said they support the vision of the Democratic Party with the victories of Tammy Duckworth and Susana Mendoza."
Madigan went on to note that "Republicans' millions spent, coupled with the Trump headwind in downstate Illinois, created a difficult environment for many Democratic candidates. Illinois residents want strong schools, funding for domestic violence shelters and veterans' homes, and a strong middle class with good wages. I hope Republicans will finally join us to protect these priorities and help deliver the services families are counting on."

Subject: Political parties; Politicians; Election results; Presidential elections; State elections

Location: Illinois; United States--US

People: Trump, Donald J; Duckworth, Ladda Tammy; Kirk, Mark; Clinton, Hillary Rodham

Company / organization: Name: Democratic Party; NAICS: 813940

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Dems triumph in Illinois races

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 7

Pages: 1,4

Number of pages: 2

Publication year: 2016

Publication date: Nov 9, 2016

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1844208999

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dems-triumph-illinois-races/docview/1844208999/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Nov 9, 2016

Last updated: 2023-07-11

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

24th District incumbent faces a challenge

Author: Hammond, Gretchen Rachel

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/24th-district-incumbent-faces-challenge/docview/1837165264/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: EH: I would and I have. [Andy Kirchoff] has to make me look like I'm not my own person. I did not get into office very easily and it wasn't through the help of [Madigan]. The first time I threw in my hat was in 2002 and there was no incumbent. I saw an opportunity for change, however I didn't win even on the second time because I was working against a very hard machine. I am not a Madigan follower.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=5&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=22&amp;date=2016-10-26&amp;atitle=24th+District+incumbent+faces+a+challenge&amp;au=Hammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=5&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=22&amp;date=2016-10-26&amp;atitle=24th+District+incumbent+faces+a+challenge&amp;au=Hammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Elizabeth Hernandez has served as the Illinois House Representative for the people of the 24th District for well over a decade.
Currently vice-chair of Illinois Legislative Latino Caucus, during her tenure, Hernandez has been a staunch proponent of immigrant rights and has tackled and won on issues including domestic violence, low-income child care assistance and anti-crime programs.
However, both nationally and on a state level, incumbent challengers have asserted that 2016 needs to be a change year, particularly in Illinois where the continuing budget impasse in Springfield has angered and frustrated voters who are seeing vital social services impacted by what many believe is inaction on the part of legislators.
Hernandez now faces a serious threat to her seat in the form of Republican Andy Kirchoff, whose campaign is gathering both momentum and endorsements.
Hernandez spoke with Windy City Times and laid out her case for another term.
Windy City Times: Kirchoff said that he once called your office and got a threemonth old voicemail, that you are not there for your constituents and that, politically, you play it safe. How do you answer those accusations?
Elizabeth Hernandez: Three months? Come on. It's complete exaggeration and lies. It's just a way to discredit me in one way or another. My strongest area is my constituency, in terms of responding to and working with my constituents. Does the phone answer every time someone calls? No. I can't be sure that it's 100 percent. I have three full time staff [members] so it would be practically impossible unless they call when the office is closed. My [house] attendance record is that I've been there every single day. As a matter of fact, [Kirchoff] took some folks to Springfield and it was almost like he was poking around to see how I would react. I was responsive and addressed the folks who came in even though it had to do with an issue we are not on the same page about.
WCT: The budget crisis is on the mind of a lot of people and they are looking at legislators with the feeling that maybe some house cleaning is needed to get it sorted. As an incumbent, why is such change unnecessary and how will this impasse then be resolved?
EH: I'm in my fifth term and there is a reason people have put me there. There has to be some sense of trust or confidence in me to hoist their concerns in Springfield. Since the time that I have been in office, I've been very careful on what committees I selected because how I selected them was a reflection on my district. Two particular committees that I sit on that have to do with funding are Appropriations for Elementary and Secondary Education, and Appropriations for Human Services. That is what is extremely important: having a voice at the table to make a difference when you're in discussion. In terms of the budget, in order for us to have reached some agreement there had to be agenda items that the governor wanted. That agenda called for doing away with what sustains middle class and low income people. I was one of the ones who fought hard to ensure that, in the Stopgap budget, we put funding back into services that was taken away.
In the stopgap budget were able to, at least temporarily, meet the needs that the people in my district were depending on. I have a district that has two schools that are on the verge of closing. I can't go back, I will not go back to constituency empty-handed. Through some of the work, some of the negotiations, we were at least able to work out year-round school finding but, I'm going to be very honest with you, we are not out of the woods. Our community needs someone who is experienced and who has a real understanding of how we have to move ahead. I admire Andy for throwing in his hat, but he has a lot to learn. He's not there.
WCT: Would you be prepared to go against Speaker Madigan to fight for your district?
EH: I would and I have. Andy has to make me look like I'm not my own person. I did not get into office very easily and it wasn't through the help of Madigan. The first time I threw in my hat was in 2002 and there was no incumbent. I saw an opportunity for change, however I didn't win even on the second time because I was working against a very hard machine. I am not a Madigan follower. I'm in agreement with a lot that he has done because I think it's going to benefit my community. Am I always? No, I'm not. The speaker has heard the voice of my district and he respects that.
WCT: Something you've fought really hard for is immigration. Among Trump's many positions is the penalizing of safe cities and the introduction of a deportation squad. This is going to affect the people in your district should he prevail. How do you fight any anti-immigrant initiatives that may come out of a Trump presidency?
EH: What most people don't know is that there are different ways that immigration has presented itself. In Springfield, there's been a series of anti-immigrant bills that have been introduced but, though my efforts and others, we've been very fortunate to keep those from even moving. That is what is needed in Springfield: to be a watchdog so that we don't have any laws that would take us backward.
Locally, I have people who come into my office with issues of a family member facing deportation. Even in my own town of Cicero, there have been issues and I've had to confront the administration with what is happening. I was part of pushing Cicero to pass a resolution for them to be a sanctuary. If there is interruption to that, it absolutely has to be brought to their attention.
WCT: Since the Orlando massacre, a lot of people in the LGBTQ community want to see the NRA fought in order to get guns off the streets of Chicago. There's a sense that legislators run and hide from the NRA. How would you approach fighting such a wellorganized lobbying body?
EH: I think there needs to be more restrictions and safety. My husband is retired law enforcement so we have our differences but there are no guns in my house. I won that fight. I'm not a friend of the NRA and, believe me, they've reached out to me in many ways. I just never give in to it. I'm a strong supporter of ant-gun measures.
Visit AmigosforLisa.com and StateRepHernandez.com.

Subject: Legislators; Candidates; State elections; Political campaigns; State budgets

Business indexing term: Subject: State budgets

Location: Illinois; United States--US

People: Hernandez, Elizabeth

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: 24th District incumbent faces a challenge

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 5

Pages: 22,24

Number of pages: 2

Publication year: 2016

Publication date: Oct 26, 2016

Section: ELECTIONS 2016: STATE REP

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1837165264

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/24th-district-incumbent-faces- challenge/docview/1837165264/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 26, 2016

Last updated: 2023-07-11

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Love and violence in Black LGBTQ communities

Author: Monroe, Irene

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/love-violence-black-lgbtq-communities/docview/1837164931/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: The 2014 Advocate article "2 Studies That Prove Domestic Violence is an LGBT issue" reports that "21.5 percent of men and 35.4 percent of women living with a same-sex partner experienced intimate-partner physical violence in their lifetimes. ...

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=5&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=26&amp;date=2016-10-26&amp;atitle=Love+and+violence+in+Black+LGBTQ+communities&amp;au=Monroe%2C+Irene&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=5&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=26&amp;date=2016-10-26&amp;atitle=Love+and+violence+in+Black+LGBTQ+communities&amp;au=Monroe%2C+Irene&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   [Note: The names are fictional and the couple described is a composite of numerous couples I counseled on interpersonal violence (IPV).]
The Jills were the envy among us lesbian couples of African descent. Their public display of love for each other and their exchanges of their special terms of endearment was the stuff you read in romance novels. They were inseparable, and we distinguished them by calling them Jill and Jillie.
When I received the call that one was being seen in the ER and other one was being detained by the police for battering, I knew it had to be a mistake. But looking back there were visible signs of interpersonal violence (IPV) that we sistah-friends came to understand and wished we could have intervened on their behalf. But we were so enamored, envious and awestruck by their oversized demonstrative displays of love and seeming respect for each other, we didn't see their troubled marriage.
October is Domestic Awareness Month, and within LGBTQ communities of color, not enough attention, education, intervention and advocacy are given to this issue.
The 2014 Advocate article "2 Studies That Prove Domestic Violence is an LGBT issue" reports that "21.5 percent of men and 35.4 percent of women living with a same-sex partner experienced intimate-partner physical violence in their lifetimes. ... Transgender respondents had an incidence of 34.6 percent over a lifetime according to a Massachusetts survey." An interpersonal Violence (IPV) study conducted in 2011 stated that LGBTQ communities of color are one of the demographic groups experiencing high incidents of domestic violence.
However, obtaining accurate statistics of how high IPV is in these communities is obfuscated by social stigmas and cultural taboos, and there are also racism as well as other forms of oppressions and discriminations.
What also interferes in obtaining accurate statistics on how high IPV is in these communities of color is that same-gender interpersonal violence is clouded with myths. And within these communities there are several cultural barriers preventing reporting domestic violence and receiving interventive services.
The Black Church is one of them.
Jill grew up in the church and whenever troubled and heavy burdened she took her woes and concerns there. The network of support through prayer and counselling wasn't available to Jill and her spouse once she came out.
Even in 2016, many Black churches are woefully far behind the country's acceptance of LGBTQ Americans. These places of worship are still spewing homophobic rhetoric from their bully pulpits. And, unfortunately, some LGBTQ victims of IPV have internalized the church's message that they are abominations to God and, therefore, deserved to be abused, flogged and beaten.
"I thought I showed strength by staying in the relationship. I thought if we acted happy we would become happy," Jill stated.
With too many churches espousing a theology emphasizing the place and value of suffering in one's life as a test from God like that of the biblical Job coupled with the marriage vow "for richer or poorer until death do us part" the act forgiveness is seductively elevated as both redemptive and virtuous that too many LGBTQ victims remain in abusive relationships.
The politic of silence is another cultural barrier preventing reporting domestic violence and receiving interventive services.
While silence diminishes a deleterious white gaze on the Black community-past and present-we need to address problems plaguing our communities, like HIV/AIDS, mental illness, suicide and IPV, to name a few. Rather than addressing these problems, they are spun into a damaging discourse of blame, shame, stigma and misinformation. And with many of us having to confront the daily microaggressions of racism and homophobia in the workplace and out in the world, the last thing many LGBTQ victims want to tackle is IPV at home, often considered a "safe space."
Jill's spouse suffered from bipolar disorder and always attributed her spouse's violence to her mood changes. Looking back, we sisterfriends only saw the couple during what they depicted as being "jubilantly high on love."
The dominant view by both healthcare professions and law-enforcement officers is that communities of color, especially of African descent, have a predisposition toward violence that gravely interferes with victims taking action and a community raising awareness.
With a cultural distrust of law-enforcement officers due to the rash of shootings and killings of unarmed Black men and women in streets, most in my community-straight or LGBTQ-call for them only in extreme dire situations, with prayers and hopes of no fatalities. Consequently, victims of IPV, especially LGBTQs, are not taken seriously.
For example, the myth that since both the victim and the abuser are of the same gender and are also in a consensual sexual relationship may lead many officers to confuse same-gender sexual violence as part and parcel of being homosexual.
Healthcare disparities in communities of color and LGBTQs are only exacerbated for LGBTQ people of color. Sadly, this creates distrust as well as a lack and underutilization of resources toward healing, moving on and prevention.
The Jills have finally separated-but not because of police intervention or heathcare prevention. We sister-friends stepped in. Not everyone has a support system.
Resources and services have to be made available to LGBTQ communities of color. And this is the time to reach out to us. Everyone deserves a safe, loving, healthy and violentfree relationship.

Subject: Gays & lesbians; African Americans; Domestic violence; Social conditions & trends

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Love and violence in Black LGBTQ communities

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 5

Pages: 26

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2016

Publication date: Oct 26, 2016

Section: viewpoints

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 1837164931

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/love-violence-black-lgbtq-communities/docview/1837164931/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 26, 2016

Last updated: 2023-07-11

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Sarah Schulman discusses queer culture, 'Conflict'

Author: Baudler, Liz

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sarah-schulman-discusses-queer-culture-conflict/docview/1832569961/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Sarah Schulman describes herself, and her work, as unorthodox. "I mean, this has been one of the problems my whole life. I don't write books that take an already established position in an argument," said Schulman. "All of my books initiate a new frame. This is true of my book on familial homophobia, of my book on gentrification, of my book about the Palestinian Queer movement.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=4&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=33&amp;date=2016-10-19&amp;atitle=Sarah+Schulman+discusses+queer+culture%2C+%27Conflict%27&amp;au=Baudler%2C+Liz&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=4&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=33&amp;date=2016-10-19&amp;atitle=Sarah+Schulman+discusses+queer+culture%2C+%27Conflict%27&amp;au=Baudler%2C+Liz&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Headnote BOOKS
Sarah Schulman describes herself, and her work, as unorthodox. "I mean, this has been one of the problems my whole life. I don't write books that take an already established position in an argument," said Schulman. "All of my books initiate a new frame. This is true of my book on familial homophobia, of my book on gentrification, of my book about the Palestinian Queer movement. If you don't read it, you can't know what it's about, because it's not an idea you've heard before. But the thing is, people imagine that they know what it's saying, because they think it's some kind of preexisting idea they already object to. So then they start taking it down without even knowing what it is."
On a well-rounded queer bookshelf, Schulman's name would appear multiple times. While she writes plays and fiction, her nonfiction is often hard to categorize. Works like Ties that Bind: Familial Homophobia and its Consequences sound like queer theory, but a term Schulman once used to describe her previous nonfiction work, The Gentrification of the Mind, seems the most all-encompassing. Her latest book, Conflict Is Not Abuse, is in that tradition. While it includes interviews and case studies, Schulman calls the book "communitybased nonfiction that's outside of the academic realm," and compares its function to the essays of Audre Lorde and Adrienne Rich.
The thesis of Conflict Is Not Abuse is that people in a conflict often mistake their heightened emotions-either inadvertently or willfully-as a more sinister threat. "Right now, there's a confusion where some of us feel that if we're frustrated and angry and upset, and we don't know how to solve the problem, that means we're being abused. There's a confusion between internal anxiety and external danger. Things like racism function in the same way. The white police officer kills the Black man because he feels an internal anxiety that comes from racism, and it makes him believe that that Black man is dangerous to him, even though he's not," Schulman said.
This misrepresentation's benefit is obvious to Schulman. "We're in a moment geopolitically as well as personally, where if a person or a nation or a group acknowledges that they have participated in causing pain or escalating conflict, then it becomes their fault," she explained. "And so everyone on every level is playing the game where they present themselves as a pure and innocent victim, which some people actually are. But in cases when they're not, people present themselves that way, so that they can be eligible for compassion."
The examples she cites in the book range from domestic partner violence to state-sponsored violence like the 2014 Israeli-Palestine clash. She notes that perpetrators often use pre-existing oppressive systems to their own advantage: the abusive partner, for instance, files the restraining order. This has become more common in the queer community as institutions like marriage help the assimilation process.
"When I was younger, gay people would never call the police, because they were considered threatening," Schulman said. "Now, certain kinds of gay people are invited to call the police. We have a division in a group that was once united by being unilaterally in illegality. We now see that white gay people who are citizens, if they're not trans or sex workers, if they're HIV negative, especially if they're in family structures, are increasingly invited into the power structure. So we have a new abject object, a new queer, who is undocumented or trans or poor. And this person becomes the object of that apparatus. American history shows that the structure doesn't change. It just rearranges who's on the bottom and who's on the top."
Schulman said she finds the solution to misuse of the community's newfound power in group accountability. "Unfortunately, now we define group loyalty by who helps us escalate. But I'm saying that that's not loyalty," Schulman explained. "Loyalty is the person who says, "how can I help you calm down? How can I help the two of you talk to each other? What is the order of events? How do you think you contributed to this? That's love. That's what a true friend does. We have to get away from this nationalist model of friendship."
Queer assimilation appears to be occurring on an artistic level as well. For years, Schulman railed against a lack of primary lesbian content in mainstream art, an issue that crippled her career as a playwright. She can pinpoint why critics and the public alike have lauded recent works like Fun Home and Transparent.
"Historically, things that reinforce the dominant culture's view of themselves are the queer works that get promoted," Schulman said. "And that's also true for works by other minorities. Most of the queer-themed works that are getting mainstreamed and institutional recognition have to do with family."
Radical queer culture has left its mark: Schulman cites Black Lives Matter and Palestinian solidarity as radical movements that welcome queer people and are informed by queer analysis. But when it comes to LGBTQ activism, Schulman sees a split in priorities.
"The LGBT track has become more of a white reconciliation movement, focused on certain kinds of legal reforms that are about assimilating white gay people into a white power structure," she said. "The reason there was a separate gay movement in the first place was because nobody else would have us."
Forgetting the past in the rush towards assimilation can have powerful consequences beyond creating dysfunctional conflict. Schulman was part of ACT UP in the '80s, and a central theme of much of her work is friendship.
"This is a community that functions on friendship," Schulman writes about the queer movement. "The reason we were able to respond so appropriately to the AIDS crisis was because we were a community based group and not divided into privatized family units."
Schulman's personal desires for the queer agenda include preserving those strong friendships that make movements like ACT UP possible, redefining motherhood for queer women, and combating racism and poverty. And she doesn't feel her role has shifted from activist to critic.
"Hopefully everything as deepened," Schulman said. But the arenas I'm involved in are the same."
Sarah Schulman will appear at Women and Children First Bookstore, 5233 N. Clark St, at 4 p.m. on Sunday, oct. 23, to discuss Conflict is Not abuse.

Subject: Writers; Books; Transgender persons; Culture; Conflict

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Schulman, Sarah

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Sarah Schulman discusses queer culture, 'Conflict'

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 4

Pages: 33

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2016

Publication date: Oct 19, 2016

Section: BOOKS

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1832569961

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sarah-schulman-discusses-queer-culture-conflict/docview/1832569961/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 19, 2016

Last updated: 2023-07-18

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

MAP report shows shocking disparities in the bisexual community

Author: Hammond, Gretchen Rachel

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/map-report-shows-shocking-disparities-bisexual/docview/1831183486/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: There's almost like a double-closeting effect," she added. "It's difficult to be out as bisexual when you have so much judgment about bisexual people, not just from the heterosexual community, but from the gay and lesbian community. If a woman is bisexual, lesbians look at her like she is less legitimate.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=3&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=7&amp;date=2016-10-12&amp;atitle=MAP+report+shows+shocking+disparities+in+the+bisexual+community&amp;au=Hammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=3&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=7&amp;date=2016-10-12&amp;atitle=MAP+report+shows+shocking+disparities+in+the+bisexual+community&amp;au=Hammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Headnote MAP report shows shocking disparities in the bisexual community
On Sept. 27, the national, independent LGBTQ think tank The Movement Advancement Project (MAP), in partnership with 10 U.S. advocacy organizations, released a major new report on the disparities faced by one group within the LGBTQ umbrella.
The report detailed inequalities the group (representing 52 percent of the LGB population) faces including a lack of support from family members and friends, harassment and sometimes violent bullying in school, disproportionately high rates of workplace discrimination, chronic homelessness, difficulty seeking asylum or navigating the immigration process, lifelong mental health and physical issues including relationship problems and isolation, an inordinately high level of risk behavior such as drug and tobacco use, suicide attempts, weight management problems, higher rates of breast cancer, HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases, cardiovascular disease, problems receiving adequate healthcare as well as a horrifying level of violence whether through intimate partner and domestic abuse, rape or sexual assault.
MAP cited a student in a 2014 Human Rights Campaign (HRC) survey who said that "I've had people tell me that my life is worthless and that I'm nothing."
A participant in a Columbia University study, also quoted in the report, said "I'll never tell anyone. I'll go to my grave with this."
The subject of the report was a group whose history has been dated back to ancient civilizations including Greece, Rome, Persia and India. They have included some of history's most renowned artists, poets, authors, singers, actors, scientists, kings, queens and emperors.
They have been a part of the LGBTQ acronym since the 1990s, yet they are rarely found marching openly within the ranks of a Pride Parade.
In fact, most feel they are invisible and, worse still, are victims of widespread discrimination and uninformed assumptions on the part of gays, lesbians and even transgender community members.
They are bisexua~ peop~e and, it seems until very recently, no one has wanted to talk about them.
Heron Greenesmith, Esq., is MAP's LGBT movement and senior policy analyst. They (preferred pronoun) are also the lead author of the report Invisible Majority: The Disparities Facing Bisexual People And How to Remedy Them.
"Last year, a group of bisexual advocates came together in Washington, D.C. for the firstever briefing on the disparities facing bisexual people," Greenesmith told Windy City Times. "It was off-the-record but the documents drafted for that briefing created the foundation for this report. We started 18 months ago with those documents, pulled together existing research and fleshed out our recommendations."
There were five bisexual nonprofits and advocacy organizations who contributed to or will help disseminate the report: BiNet USA, The Bisexual Organizing Project (BOP), The Bisexual Resource Center (BRC), The Bi Queer Alliance Chicago and The Los Angeles Bi Task Force (LABTF).
Bi Queer Alliance Chicago representative Noel Spain told Windy City Times that the group "provided feedback to MAP on earlier drafts of the report." (See separate story for information on the work of Bi Queer Alliance Chicago.)
Robert Ozn is the chair of LABTF. Identifying as a bisexual, cisgender male, Ozn is currently involved in a polyamorous relationship. His partner is male and Ozn also has a girlfriend- an experience he describes as "incredibly fulfilling."
A professional musician, Ozn's single "Je Suis Paris-I Am Orlando" has been a hit in Europe's dance clubs and currently sits at No. 15 on the British Music Week charts.
He told Windy City Times that his organization has not only publicly supported the MAP report but that they intend to distribute it to advocacy groups such as the Lesbian and Gay Advisory Board of West Hollywood, the Los Angeles mayor's office and LGBT reporters in California.
"Bisexual issues have been, for the most part, ignored by the Southern California LGBT press," Ozn said. "So we want to reach out to them and make something happen."
The reason for that is demonstrated in the final and released version of MAP"s narrative. It is shocking.
"Bisexual people are frequently swept into the greater lesbian, gay, and bisexual (LGB) community, their specific disparities made invisible within data about the LGB community as a whole," it begins. "Bisexual people's sexuality is often invisible in broader society: bisexual people are often assumed to be gay, lesbian, or heterosexual based on the gender of their partner. Yet, when bisexual people are open about their sexuality, they face increased levels of violence from intimate partners; rejection by community, family, and peers; and skepticism from the people and organizations whom they turn to for help, resources, and services."
Yet, according to the report, "People who identify as bisexual comprise about half of lesbian, gay and bisexual people in the United States. Of respondents to the [2011] National Transgender Discrimination Survey, 23 [percent] reported identifying as bisexual and another 20 [percent] as queer."
"Two-thirds of LGB parents are bisexual," it adds, "Approximately 59 [percent] of bisexual women and 32 [percent] of bisexual men have had children. The majority of bisexual people in relationships are in relationships with people of the opposite sex. 84 percent of bisexual people in a committed relationship are involved with someone of the opposite sex. Another four [percent] of bisexual people have a spouse or partner who is transgender."
Using the sometimes scant research data currently available, MAP's report reveals "the extent to which bisexual people face bias from their families, communities (including the LGBT community) and society as a whole."
It noted that "only 33 [percent] of bisexual people had ever attended a Pride event and only 20 percent said there is a lot of social acceptance of LGB people where they live."
It went on to detail how, in educational settings, "29 percent of bisexual youth reported being frequently or often verbally harassed. 24 [percent] of bisexual youth and 32 [percent]of pansexual youth reported frequently or often being excluded by peers for being different."
MAP cited a 2015 study which noted that, "Bisexual women were 64 [percent] less likely to have graduated high school and 48 [percent] less likely to have ever enrolled in college than 'completely heterosexual' respondents; and bisexual men were 45 [percent] less likely to enroll in college than 'completely heterosexual' men."
"Harassment, exclusion and lack of support at school may be compounded for some bisexual youth leading to higher prevalence of risk behaviors, including substance abuse," the report stated while stressing that "a growing body of research shows that bisexual youth experience unique challenges and barriers that may put them at an increased risk of experiencing homelessness."
Life for bisexual people is not much better in the workplace, despite a growing number of companies boasting LGBT Employee Resource Groups (ERGs).
"A 2011 study by the Williams Institute found that only six [percent] of bisexual people reported being open about their sexual orientation to all their coworkers, compared to 40 [percent] of lesbian and gay people," the report noted.
It added that employment discrimination has taken a toll on both the health and well-being of bisexual people and their earning power with a Pew Research Center Study finding that "48 [percent] of bisexual respondents reported an annual family income of less than $30,000."
The mental health of bisexual people is markedly poor due to rejection and isolation.
"Data analyzed from the National Epidemiological Survey on Alcohol and Related Conditions found that bisexual behavior (defined in the survey as having had sex with 'both males and females') conferred the greatest odds of having any mood or anxiety disorder," MAP asserted. "In the general population, mental health conditions have been found to contribute significantly to suicide, although many other individual, interpersonal, communi ty, and societal factors clearly increase suicide risk. In a 2010 study in Canada, bisexual men were six times more likely than heterosexual men to report seriously considering suicide at some point in their lives."
An equally disturbing aspect of MAP's report concerned the levels of violence experienced by bisexual people. It cited 2013 Centers for Disease Control (CDC) figures which found that 61[percent] of bisexual women and 37 [percent] of bisexual men reported experiencing rape, physical violence, and/or stalking by an intimate partner at some point in their lifetime."
"The same study found that 46 [percent] of bisexual women had been raped," it continued. "Forty-seven [percent] of bisexual men and 75 [percent] of bisexual women reported experiencing any sexual violence other than rape from any perpetrator across their lifetime. Bisexual women survivors reported feeling isolated from LGBTQ people and from the broader community and often did not disclose their bisexual identity when accessing services for intimate partner violence."
"Bisexual people face bias on many fronts," MAP asserted, "from friends and family; from service providers and employers; from heterosexual people; but also, often from gay and lesbian people. This bias, when combined with the interpersonal and legal discrimination that constitute minority stress, creates unique and specific negative outcomes for bisexual people."
It raises the question of why bisexual individuals are either targeted or ignored completely, in particular, by members of the broader LGT umbrella.
"Politically and socially, we are 30 years behind the lesbian and gay community," Ozn said. "The disappointing fact of life is that they are not sharing their influence with us. As recently as three weeks ago, the West Hollywood Lesbian and Gay Advisory Board turned down, by a vote, an opportunity to recommend to the city council that bisexuals have representation in the advisory board structure."
Ozn added that the advisory board also refused representation of any kind.
"For that kind of discrimination to be going on in 2016 is shocking to me," he stated.
"We have data pointing to disparities but we don't have a lot of research into the origins of the bias and discrimination against bisexual people," Greenesmith said. "There is some speculation by some researchers that myths and stereotypes lead to that bias-myths about cheating, stereotypes about confusion."
Red Schulte is a Chicago community organizer and queer-identified woman who is openly bisexual.
"When I was very young, I thought it was a normal way of being," they said. "In elementary school, I remember playground or sleepover interactions with friends and feeling the same way about them and being intrigued by personalities. In fifth or sixth grade, I would comment about liking a girl as a boyfriend and that was not OK with teachers and peers. I made the fatal mistake of saying something very innocent and honest and I was shut down quickly."
"At middle school age, I had a lot of interests," Schulte added. "People were constantly finding my notebook which had lists of people who I liked in it. Those lists were populated by the names of boys and girls. It was just a given for me. Of course the notebook got passed around the classroom and I got made fun of."
Schulte, who grew up in a small Texas town, recalled that 'Dyke' was hurled against them as an epithet quite frequently.
"It wasn't until later in college that I felt a kindred love for that term because I found a feminist community and a group of people who were taking it back," they said. "I've since gone through multiple expressions of gender performativity-more femme or more butch presentations."
Schulte said they didn't know about the term bisexual until around the sixth grade.
"It was the early '90s, the era of Jerry Springer and Maury Povich, who were parading people on these shows to be ridiculed," they recalled. "I have a sense that's where people were getting conceptions of difference. But I remember rooting for the people on these shows and getting very upset at the questions being asked from the audience. The word bisexual was bandied about in school in a curious sense. It was a new word for me but I remember it making sense and being like 'that's me. I like both people!'"
Schulte recalled dating as a struggle.
"People don't accept or believe that your sexual orientation and desires are valid, legitimate or even real," they said. "There have been plenty of people both in the queer community and outside of it who have been like 'Just make up your mind. Just decide. Pick one. You're only half way out of the closet.' These are actual things that have been said to me and others that I know."
Schulte is currently in a serious relationship with a queer-identified cisgender male.
"When we are outside together on a date, we present as straight to people who want to perceive us as such," Schulte said. "When we got to queer community events, there's some who are 'looking' at us. Even though our identities, desires, orientations and loved experiences are queer, people don't like how 'straight' we look."
Miriam and Alan Insley Churchill are a cisgender, queer, polyamorous couple living in Chicago. They have been together for over four years and were married on the day of the 2016 Pride Parade. Alan is a senior software engineer and Miriam is a student and aspiring novelist. Each prefer they, them and theirs pronouns.
Introduced by a family friend of Alan's, the couple were friends at first during which time Miriam was dating a transgender woman named Sarah and Alan was going through a divorce.
"I am bi but I find I am much more attracted to people who are attracted to me," Alan noted. "My sexuality is tied to my emotional feelings. I fantasized about men and women all my life. I find women's bodies very attractive. I also find large shoulders attractive. I went to Catholic School and kept failing until I switched to public school. During my first marriage, sex became torturous. There was some depression and I stopped being able to work well. I had a plan to kill myself. You find that you can't escape yourself. The hurt is inside and there is no running away from how you feel."
Instead, Alan found a therapist and began to research their sexual identity.
"My body felt fluid to me and my sexuality would change based on how my body felt," they explained. "So if my body felt more feminine, I was attracted to men. When it felt more masculine, I was attracted to women."
Alan added that they didn't see a place where they could come out.
"There was no one I could ever come to and say 'look that this that I've discovered about myself' because nobody cares," they said. "I talked to my dad about it and he was fine. My kids were already upset about the divorce. My being bi gave them another reason to be angry. My friends who are straight are a little less friendly. You can tell they are uncomfortable with it."
Miriam remembered a crush on their music teacher when they were 13.
"I told two of my friends in junior high," they said. "One of them told the whole school. I was out to the local high school before I even went there because people in junior high told them I was gay. So I was labelled that way even though I started to discover an attraction for men."
Miriam added that their first kiss with a man was as electric as it was confusing.
"I felt like it compromised my identity and my politics," they said. "I spent a whole bunch of years wondering 'am I gay or am I bi?' I wasn't trying to find a label, I was trying to find out how I was going to be happy with a future partner. When I got to college, I heard the term 'queer' and I liked that a lot better. My sexuality is fluid, I'm not always 50 percent attracted to men or women. I go with queer because it's not heteronormative."
Miriam has suffered from severe depression for as long as they can remember.
"I think my identity maybe magnified it because I grew up in a small town," they said. "But it was mostly chemical. I didn't tell anybody about my identity. It's hard to come out because there is a bisexual invisibility. When I'm with Alan, people assume that I'm straight. When I go to the Pride Parade, people assume all kinds of things."
Like Schulte, Miriam found that misconceptions about bisexual people made dating a challenge.
"When I was dating Sarah, she was afraid I was going to cheat on her with a man," they said. "On the flip side of that, you have men who want to date you because they think they are going to get a ménage à trois and that you will do anything because you are bisexual. That labels you in a lot of bad ways. It's very isolating because lesbians don't want to date you and a lot of the bi-chicks who do already have men as their primary partners. When I was single, that mattered a lot because there weren't many women to date. Now that I am with Alan, it's complicated to explain on dates that I am married but free to have a relationship even though I'm not going to leave my husband."
When, during the course of the couple's relationship, Alan went on a date with a man named Frank, Miriam admitted to a little jealousy.
"I always say that loving other people doesn't diminish the love I have for Miriam," Alan said. "It's not like it's a bucket of water that's measurable. Though I don't like to see Miriam hurt."
"But jealousy is a petty emotion that I need to get over and I recognize that," Miriam said. "That's how a poly relationship works. It evolves."
Trans and bisexual
The MAP report noted "some evidence that more transgender people identify as bisexual than non-transgender people."
Christina Kahrl, major league baseball writer for ESPN, is a renowned figure in trans activism both in Chicago and nationwide. Her sexual orientation is bisexual. She has been happily married to a lesbian woman for two-and-a-half years.
"I think that the message that a trans person is worthy of love, can be loved and can love is, I hate to say, a relatively recent development as a publically consumed message," Kahrl noted. "For so long, trans people were fetishized or seen as sexual objects. The idea that we are real people with real emotional lives and a rich need for the same experiences as everybody else has been difficult enough. I think it is doubled because bisexuality adds another layer."
"There's almost like a double-closeting effect," she added. "It's difficult to be out as bisexual when you have so much judgment about bisexual people, not just from the heterosexual community, but from the gay and lesbian community. If a woman is bisexual, lesbians look at her like she is less legitimate. If a man says that he is bisexual, cis heteronormativity and gay men say that, 'You're really just gay and you're just trying to waffle.' You can't win for losing on both counts because everybody looks at you and says 'you're not with us, you must not be one of us,' or 'you really should be one of us and you're just lying to yourself both of which are condescending, ignorant and frustrating to have to deal with."
Kahrl asserted that such misinformed ideology also has an effect on the partners of bisexual people.
"There are some lesbians who look at my wife as something other than a lesbian because she is married to a bisexual trans woman," she said. "No. She's still a lesbian. Being bisexual doesn't mean that we don't believe in committed relationships and can't live happily ever after the same as everybody else. It just means there are people within the cisgender, transgender, gay and lesbian communities who are finding ways to invalidate those kind of relationships because they don't fit within their norms and their easy, pre-printed box of what relationships are supposed to look like."
Kahrl recalled pushback from within the transgender community.
"Some folks try to label any trans woman in a relationship with a cisgender woman as being cisgender and heteronormative-men having sex with women," she said. "It's despicable and stupid but there are those people who feel that, if you are a transgender woman and you are not with men, then somehow you are less trans. Some trans people want to legitimize themselves and delegitimize other trans people because they are different in some way."
"Obviously now I have a broader conception and acceptance of difference and gender spectrum exploration," Schulte said. "As alienated humans we struggle with love, trust and acceptance because we're not taught our own self-worth so why should we be interested in others? Why can't we just love and accept a person as they present themselves or in the plural too, for folks in polyamorous situations, why can't we just trust?"
"We're not trying to hurt each other," Alan said. "But feelings are feelings and it's hard to know what generates them. Exploring them is super healthy. That's what it has meant to me from the beginning and it still does. It's just accepting how you feel, regardless of its source."
"I feel like people don't choose to discriminate. They're not setting out and saying 'we hate bi people' but they're being cautious with their emotions, they feel more emotionally threatened by bisexuals," Miriam added. "Also, in some circles, there's a very gay or lesbian culture and they want you to fit into it."
Not 'this' or 'that'
"I think a key element here is that bisexual people simply are," Kahrl said. "There's a component within communities of identity that's about creating an identity and fulfilling it. Bi people are just reacting or responding to their own sexuality not some broadly generated understanding of what it means to be gay, lesbian or trans. We are not 'this' or 'that.' We are an 'and.' We don't need to fill any good-to-go boxes. We just want to live our own lives and wind up in relationships with the people that we love same as everybody else."
Following the 18th annual Bisexual Awareness Day Sept. 23, the White House Office of Public Engagement hosted "over 100 advocates for a community briefing on advancing equality for members of the bisexual community."
In a statement on the White House blog, Outreach & Recruitment Director for the Presidential Personnel Office Raffi Freedman-Gurspan noted that, "The community briefing [featured] discussions on the steps that community leaders and Administration officials have taken together to support bisexual Americans. It [also underlined] the challenges ahead in the community, specifically related to disproportionate risks of mental and physical health struggles, poverty, addiction, and violence-and the need for fully inclusive federal non-discrimination protections."
The MAP report offered a series of recommendations including anti-bullying legislation, comprehensive sexual and reproductive health education curricula and support of school Gay Straight Alliances (GSAs), passage of the Equality Act "explicitly prohibiting employment discrimination on the bases of sexual orientation and gender identity," federal expansion of research and data collection, cultural competency guidance for state and local departments of mental health and federal Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) grantees "including organizational grantees and individual mental health professionals, working with LGBT, and specifically bisexual, youth and adults" and "federal Department of Justice and Department of Health and Human Services guidance on cultural competence to grantees and service providers who serve bisexual survivors of violence."
"This report should serve as a clarion call to policymakers and service providers across the country," MAP concluded. "In order to fully serve the LGBT community, we must also fully serve the bisexual community."

Subject: Think tanks; Gays & lesbians; Inequality; Health disparities; Health care access; Sexual orientation

Company / organization: Name: Movement Advancement Project; NAICS: 541720

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: MAP report shows shocking disparities in the bisexual community

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 3

Pages: 7-9,15,17

Number of pages: 5

Publication year: 2016

Publication date: Oct 12, 2016

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1831183486

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/map-report-shows-shocking-disparities-bisexual/docview/1831183486/ se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 12, 2016

Last updated: 2023-07-11

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Dawn Valenti: A Chicago survivor's story

Author: Hammond, Gretchen Rachel

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dawn-valenti-chicago-survivors-story/docview/1831183466/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: I don't, I don't, I don't," she repeated emphatically. "Because I have to be their strength. I can't break down. But there's times when I leave the family and I'm in my car down the street and I break down or I go home and I just shut it down. To hear a woman say 'I thought giving birth was the worst thing I had to do' after she walks out of the medical examiner's office identifying her son is hard for me.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=3&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=18&amp;date=2016-10-12&amp;atitle=Dawn+Valenti%3A+A+Chicago+survivor%27s+story&amp;au=Hammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=32&amp;issue=3&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=18&amp;date=2016-10-12&amp;atitle=Dawn+Valenti%3A+A+Chicago+survivor%27s+story&amp;au=Hammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   When trans woman of color T.T. Saffore was found murdered on Chicago's West Side Sept. 11, her grieving family and friends seemingly had nowhere to turn. Like anyone who has lost a loved one to violence, they were in a state of shock.
Clouding their ability to express their devastating grief were questions about what to do next. According to a friend of Saffore, Chicago Police Department investigators did not reach out to the family for at least a week. Why not? Why did this happen? Who was responsible? Where did they have to go to identify and retrieve the body of their loved one in order to give her a decent burial?
There was a completely unknown system into which the family had suddenly and unceremoniously been thrown and had to navigate. Where to start? Why was no one listening to them?
Into their lives came Dawn Valenti, a crisis responder with Chicago Survivors.
The nonprofit, which operates on the upper floor offices of a South Side church, was founded in 2010 by Joy McCormack in the aftermath of her son Frankie's murder.
According to its website, Chicago Survivors "staff meet families at the worst moment of their lives and-day by day-accompany them through the unfamiliar systems, unwanted experiences, and unwelcome feelings so that no one has to face them alone."
From the crime scene, to the hospital, to helping communicate with CPD and the medical examiner's office to coordinating with the funeral home and "wherever needed," the Chicago Survivors crisis response team is there for the family like an unexpected but essential friend offering not only the time needed to grieve, but they also listen patiently and sympathetically as the emotions contained within that grief finds its myriad of voices.
With almost 600 homicides reported in Chicago since January, this year Chicago Survivors staff has been stretched to the extreme. Their office and cell phones are always ringing and not even a brief interview with Windy City Times can pass without an urgent call. But they take it in their stride no matter what the hour of the day or night. They each know how invaluable their work is.
Valenti has been a part of Chicago Survivors since its very beginning as a program of Chicago Citizens for Change. She also was the organizer of Chicago's first vigil in response to the murders of 49 people at an LGBT club, The Pulse, in Orlando. That vigil brought together the LGBTQ community and families in Chicago who had lost their children to gun violence.
On first appearances, Valenti is an imposing figure.
"I like tattoos, I ride a motorcycle," she said. "But I tell people all the time 'don't judge the book by its cover. If you want to get to know me, open me up and read me.'"
Inside those pages is an extraordinary life born into horrific violence and abuse, in what is now the Roscoe Village neighborhood of Chicago, but shaped in determination, spiritual and self-belief and her unwavering love for people.
Valenti has accumulated certifications which include life coaching, psychological first aid and as a domestic violence and sexual assault advocate. She also has the kind of experience for the job no one would want on their resume but which would eventually chart the course of her life both professionally and as the most openhanded of defenders.
"I come from a home where my mother was battered and I was sexually abused probably as early as five years old," she said. "My mom's boyfriend and the father of my three younger siblings was an alcoholic and all-around bad guy. He abused me. My older sister has been on drugs all her life. She used to sleep with a knife under her pillow and, to this day, she still does. He destroyed our family. Whenever he was there, it was uncomfortable and I would leave the house. There were times when I didn't want to be there at all so, at about 11 years old, I started running away. No matter where I ran, my mom always found me, but I didn't want to be at home. It didn't feel safe."
Valenti grew up in the '70s, when domestic violence was as much of a reality as it is today-but completely unaddressed.
"My mom's boyfriend would beat the crap out of her," she said. "She'd call the police and he would come back a few weeks later. For me it was normal. What happened to me dampened the relationship with the woman who gave birth to me. I call her that because I don't have a mother. She always treated me differently. When I was 21, I told my mom what happened to me, she just dropped me off and wanted to be alone. She was always there for me when I was in trouble but, when I was an adult and changed my life, she was not there for me. The last time I talked with her was Mother's Day three years ago and that conversation didn't go very well. She told me I wasn't her daughter anymore and she never wanted to see me again."
"I didn't have a father," she added. "And I didn't have somebody who was supposed to be in my corner. I learned last year from my aunt that my mom used to blame me. She used to say, 'How do I know she didn't want it?' Here I am today 51 years old and I don't have either parent. So I'm out here on my own and it's very hurtful but I can't let that destroy me. I feel like God has a plan for me."
It was the only time in the interview that Valenti's plain-speaking demeanor began to waver into tears, but then she instinctually took control.
Valenti had no childhood role models. No one believed in her.
"I didn't have nobody to tap me on the shoulder and say 'hey little girl, what's going on? Why are you doing these things?'" She recalled. "So now, I am very passionate when people tell me things are happening with their daughters, sons, nieces or nephews. I understand that. I heard somebody say on a panel one time that 'crazy wasn't born crazy. Something happened to crazy when crazy was a baby to make crazy, crazy.' Something happens in the home that drives people to the streets. When you understand that, you have a choice to change your life."
Valenti credits being a lesbian as key to changing hers.
"I was a gang member," she said. "I was 17 and hanging out on a corner at Lawrence and Clark and there was a building across the street with two people I am still friends with today. I knew they were gay. One of them came up to me and was like 'hey, you like girls don't you?' I was like 'no!' But we became friends and I started meeting different people. Once I realized it was OK to be a lesbian and that there were women [like] me, I liked that better than gangbanging so, little-by-little, I left that life."
Valenti's first partner was a woman 10 years her senior who had four kids.
"I got a job at Osco Drug and worked my way up from a clerk to store supervisor and then liquor manager," she said. "I was there for 13 years. But I didn't feel like it was where I wanted be."
She got into truck driving and delivery for the Chicago-based Jays Foods and went on to become an independent contractor for the pretzel maker Snyders-Lance.
"I had my own truck, I had a route, I was making the most money I ever made in my life and I didn't have to answer to anybody," she recalled. "Then they came along and said, 'Now you've gotta buy your own route.' Mine was $66,000."
Valenti left the company. She and other employees filed a class-action lawsuit against it.
"I lived off the lawsuit," she said. "But I had this 16-foot box truck that I was trying to sell. The alternator went out. So I had it parked next to the Jewel on Ashland and Clark. One day, I get there and the truck is gone. Somebody who had the same kind of truck was moving equipment and he wiped my whole truck out. But it worked out for me because the insurance paid way more than what I was asking for it so I was able to do the kind of work I'm doing today full-time. I believe it was God's way of kicking me in the backside and pushing me out there."
She began domestic violence training at Chicago Battered Metropolitan Women's Network. There, Valenti met representatives from Rape Victims Advocates (RVA) and started working on their courses.
"When I took the domestic violence training, I didn't feel like I needed it," she said. "But one thing that never crossed my mind was women with disabilities in abusive relationships. My teacher was a woman in a wheelchair who had polio. She had been in an abusive relationship for two years and she said 'my husband used to hit me wherever he felt like, mostly in my face. He would pick me up out of my chair, put me in the bathroom on the floor and lock me in there for hours at a time.' So some of this stuff I thought I knew, I didn't know at all."
In 2009, Valenti met McCormack and her partner, Siu Moy, at a fundraiser for their son. At the time, Valenti had her own nonprofit United For A Cause which worked with women and children suffering from domestic violence.
"They said they were alone and I was like, 'No you're not,'" Valenti said. "So we became friends. When Joy lost her son, she looked for help and couldn't find anybody. She looked in the yellow pages. There was nobody to help her with her grief and what she was feeling. The one person she did find said 'what do you need?' She didn't know what she needed."
When the trial of her son's killers concluded, McCormack decided to create an organization dedicated to ensuring that nobody would have to walk the same journey alone. Each of the founders had jobs for at a least year before Chicago Survivors had enough funding for some paid positions. McCormack is not on staff, but she is chair of the board. It became a calling because the need was so great.
"How do you deal with the hospital when security is telling you to leave and they won't let you see your loved one?" Valenti said. "Or you get to the medical examiner's office and it's open between this time and this time and only two of you can go in for identification. It's stuff that nobody knows because you don't expect to bury your child. There's a lot of protocols and procedures in this city that people don't know. If their loved one is pronounced dead on the street, [the body] is taken to the medical examiner's office but you have to wait for the autopsy to be done."
At first, Chicago Survivors found their families through word-of-mouth.
"We would get calls from people who knew people or even the media sometimes," Valenti said. "Joy worked very hard on this. She wanted to see it happen. There were no groups like ours that are structured and doing the things we do."
The organization currently has 12 staff members including four crisis responders.
"I don't have a degree in pain," Valenti added.
"It is something I experienced on my own. I have a connection to the streets. So when I am visiting with family who has lost a child to violence, I feel like they would rather talk to me than talk to somebody in a suit with a briefcase."
The day before she met with Windy City Times, Valenti was with the mother of Demetrius Griffin, Jr. His body was found in a pile of trash in a burning garage in the West Side neighborhood of Austin Sept. 17. He was just 15.
"His mother was waiting on the medical examiner's office to call her because they had to wait on the dental records. She kept telling me 'I know it's my son. But we can talk about it because I feel you in my heart'." Valenti recalled. "I think that's because I'm real and I'm passionate about what I do."
Yet no matter how horrific the story or how harrowing the grief, she does not cry in front of family members.
"I don't, I don't, I don't," she repeated emphatically. "Because I have to be their strength. I can't break down. But there's times when I leave the family and I'm in my car down the street and I break down or I go home and I just shut it down. To hear a woman say 'I thought giving birth was the worst thing I had to do' after she walks out of the medical examiner's office identifying her son is hard for me. I walked into a funeral home one time and saw a casket standing upright. Never seen that before. Didn't understand why until the parents came in and I heard the mom say 'nobody will ever look down on my daughter.'"
"She was 18," Valenti added. "She had just finished [training] as a pharmacy tech. She was standing on the corner with some friends. Somebody firing at the guys on the corner shot and killed her. But that casket was upright. When I left, I got two blocks away and just broke down because I'm mad at a society that would do something like this to [a woman's] daughter and then she has to bury her but not want anybody to look down on her."
The murder rate in Chicago is such that, looking at a weekend shooting report in its local media has become akin to reading the posted names of casualties of war-just a name and maybe a short sentence about their age and where they lived.
"Years ago, when you heard about the shootings, the media used to list them as 'The first or the second Chicago public student' but I was like 'these kids have names,"" Valenti said. "You hear things like 'gang-related' but we've been working with the CPD to make them understand that, when they label things as 'gangrelated,' it affects life insurance and crime victims' compensation. Even today I was meeting with a family who were upset because a media outlet had said that their son was a convicted felon and a gang member. They said he wasn't."
As for the mainstream media and the society it serves, Valenti wants to know where the outrage is over the senseless and endless killing.
"Does society have to hear about a family who was waiting two days for dental records because their 15-year-old-son was burnt to death?" she said. "When do we stop pointing fingers? I've heard that [victims] were calling for help and nobody came. Why? If I hear you calling for help, I'm going to stop. I'm going to help you."
That is Valenti's life now and it is one that she finally calls home.
For more information about Chicago Survivors, visit http://www.chicagosurvivors.org .
Valenti will be among the presenters at the Oct. 20 anti-gun violence event put together by anti-gun organizations, Latinx groups and the LGBTQ community. Details elsewhere this issue.
Sidebar "I have a connection to the streets. So when I am visiting with family who has lost a child to violence, I feel like they would rather talk to me than talk to somebody in a suit with a briefcase."
- Dawn Valenti

Subject: Transgender persons; Crisis intervention; Survivor; Violent crime; Gays & lesbians

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Valenti, Dawn

Company / organization: Name: Chicago Survivors; NAICS: 624190

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Dawn Valenti: A Chicago survivor's story

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 32

Issue: 3

Pages: 18-19

Number of pages: 2

Publication year: 2016

Publication date: Oct 12, 2016

Section: PASSAGES

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1831183466

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dawn-valenti-chicago-survivors-story/docview/1831183466/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 12, 2016

Last updated: 2023-07-11

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Rita Adair talks activism, upcoming book, social work

Author: Maxwell, Carrie

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rita-adair-talks-activism-upcoming-book-social/docview/1807741567/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: To join WACT, visit https://www.facebook. com/groups/152344554812622/. More info about Lez In Color is at https://www.facebook.com/groups/LezInColor/.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=43&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=17&amp;date=2016-07-20&amp;atitle=Rita+Adair+talks+activism%2C+upcoming+book%2C+social+work&amp;au=Maxwell%2C+Carrie&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=43&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=17&amp;date=2016-07-20&amp;atitle=Rita+Adair+talks+activism%2C+upcoming+book%2C+social+work&amp;au=Maxwell%2C+Carrie&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Headnote PROFILE
When Rita Adair moved to Chicago five years ago, she'd already made a name for herself as an activist and social worker in her hometown, Madison, Wisconsin. Adair currently lives in the Edgewater neighborhood; however, she'll be leaving the city at the end of the month to travel and write a book.
Born in 1955 to a white Norweigan mom who was a professional costumer and an African-American dad from the South, Adair-the middle child among six siblings-spent her childhood living in a variety of places, attending many schools in both the United States and Canada due to her stepdad's-Sailor Art Thomas'-career as a professional wrestler with the WWE. (He was named Mr. Black Adonis in 1973.)
As Adair entered high school, her family settled in Madison, where she attended Madison East High School. She didn't graduate but later went back and got a high school equivalency diploma. Adair studied social work at the University of Wisconsin at Madison for a while but didn't complete her studies, as she was also working full time as a single parent.
"The state of Wisconsin tested and licensed me as a social worker/counselor without completing my degree because of my many years of social work experience," said Adair.
In addition to being a foster parent to 23 teenage girls over a period of 17 years, Adair spent the bulk of her working life as a social worker for Dane County in Wisconsin. She worked in the Dane County District Attorney's Office for 16 years in many roles-the Coordinator for the Dane County Prostitution Project, Community Service Coordinator and Intake Counselor as well as facilitating domestic violence classes and teaching criminology.
"I spent most of my time at the district attorney's office dealing with domestic violence and sensitive crime cases," said Adair. "I got tired of being in the office and meeting people after they committed a crime. I decided I wanted to work in the community, so I took a job as the Community Social Worker with Dane County Human Services. I did that for 13 years before I retired in 2011."
While working for the county, Adair also owned an upscale LGBTQ blues-and-jazz club in Madison called Adair's Lounge.
Adair not only helped those in her community by raising millions of dollars for various agencies, developing programs and changing neighborhoods for the better; she took her activism national. She was the co-organizer of the 34 Black women contingent from Madison to the 1997 Million Woman March in Philadelphia and spearheaded the resettlement of 30 people to Madison following Hurricane Katrina. Adair raised $155,000 in the first 24 hours after the hurricane hit and continued to fundraise after that.
"My mom was a Freedom Rider," said Adair. "I come from a long line of activist work so it didn't surprise me that I became an activist myself. In 2005, I was voted the most newsworthy person in Dane County and was honored by the state of Wisconsin (certificate of commendation), the Wisconsin Legislative Black Caucus (citation by assembly), and the Madison Police Department and Dane County Executive for my community work."
Adair noted that her family is accepting of people's differences because of her parents' status as a biracial couple. She explained that when her mom's best childhood friend, Lorraine, came out in the '70s as transgender and took the name Larry it was no big deal to anyone in her family.
Even though Adair knew about Larry when she was in elementary school, she was still influenced by the Black Baptist church she attended.
"I got a clear message from church: I'd go to hell if I was a lesbian," said Adair. "I didn't want to go to hell so I did what I was supposed to do which was get married to a man and have children. It wasn't until I was 45 and two times divorced that I was able to live my life authentically. Actually my mom told me I was a lesbian. I'll never forget that day. She asked me when I was going to stop this (wanting a man) and admit I was a lesbian. Her acceptance made me know it was okay to be a lesbian and live my life."
Adair had two children and adopted her youngest daughter-Tyrone Adair (deceased), Raven Adair and Brandi Grayson. She has six grandchildren (two deceased) and two greatgranddaughters. Grayson followed in her mom's footsteps and founded Young Gifted and Black, is the chair of #BlackLivesMatter Madison and continues to teach, protest/march and speak locally and across the country.
"When I had my first relationship with a woman, we moved in together right away," said Adair. "It was the classic U-Haul lesbian joke. I didn't want my grown kids to know because I still wasn't sure what I was doing. After a few months, my son and I were in the car and he said to me, 'Mom, you still think you have to earn my respect?' and I said, 'What did you just say?' and we looked at each other and I said, 'You're talking about Tina' and he said, 'Yes, mom-why did you think you couldn't tell me?' He told me that he got together with his sisters and they decided he would be the one to talk to me. My kids are fine with me being a lesbian."
When Adair retired, she'd already made Chicago her second home, having traveled to the city to hang out with the Black lesbian community here. She went to parties and joined groups ahead of her move; when she arrived she dove right in and got involved on the planning committee of Women of All Colors Together, also known as Women of All Cultures Together (WACT). Adair also volunteered at the Center on Halsted's front desk.
Until recently, Adair was also the co-chair, alongside Toi Williams, of Affinity Community Services' Trail Blazers committee. She also created Adair Entertainment and started the 2nd Sunday Parties for queer women who don't really like the nighttime bar scene; Adair also created/managed two profession lesbian lip-sync groups-Style & Swagg and Seduction-as well as a Facebook page, LezInColor, on which queer women can let people know what's going on across the country.
"WACT is pretty informal and has an active membership of about 60 people who show up to our first Sunday of the month pot lucks held at members' houses," said Adair. "As for Affinity, we did some groundbreaking work including events and raising money."
Other than finding a larger, more diverse queer woman community, the underlying reason for Adair's move from Madison to Chicago is because of what happened with her son Tyrone and his family.
"In December 2009, Tyrone committed familicide," said Adair. "He shot and killed his two daughters (my grandchildren) and each of their moms. He also killed himself; after that, I wasn't able to do my work the same way, so that's why I decided to retire. When anyone was talking about what he did, they always began it by referencing me because I was a well-known member of the community. I wasn't treated badly. The people were actually very kind to me but it was really hard to stay in Madison."
Although Adair loves Chicago and what she's done here, she explained that the reason why she's decided to put her stuff in storage and travel is so she can focus on the book she's writing about her life with Tyrone.
"I want to learn more about familicide so I can educate people," said Adair. "I'm also going to look at mental health issues within the African-American community, guns [access] and domestic violence. I've started doing this research, attending conferences and doing public speaking and what I've learned is this is very common unfortunately. There aren't enough services for the family members of those who've killed other people. Those families are judged and not given any support. It's hard when an adult child of yours does something wrong. No matter how adult your child is, others judge the parents."
Adair noted that when she completes her book she doesn't know where she'll land; however, Chicago is still in the running. She said Chicago gets a bad rap due to gun violence and the politics of City Hall, but she doesn't see the city that way.
"The truth is Chicago is a vibrant, diverse, incredible place to live," said Adair. "I wish people would discover Chicago the way I have, especially what the LGBTQ community has to offer."
In terms of what she does for fun, Adair was a professional background vocalist off and on for 30 years. She also loves attending spokenword events, does interior design, spends time outdoors and swims. (She was a swimmer at the 1967 Youth Olympics in Montreal, Canada.) Recently, Adair and her best friend went skylining in the Wisconsin Dells and she's planning on going race-car driving and jet skiing next.
As for what Adair wants to convey to the world, she said, "Sometimes I think it's easy for us to have passion but the hard part is to take action. It's important to light the match and I mean that in a good way. We can't keep sitting back and wallowing in our emotions. There are many things that need to be addressed and we all have to get involved."
To join WACT, visit https://www.facebook. com/groups/152344554812622/. More info about Lez In Color is at https://www.facebook.com/groups/LezInColor/.

Subject: Personal profiles; Writers; Social work; Activism; Books

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Adair, Rita

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Rita Adair talks activism, upcoming book, social work

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 31

Issue: 43

Pages: 17

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2016

Publication date: Jul 20, 2016

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1807741567

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rita-adair-talks-activism-upcoming-book-social/docview/1807741567/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jul 20, 2016

Last updated: 2023-07-18

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Activist Rachel Williams talks #SayHerName, BYP100, intersectionality

Author: Maxwell, Carrie

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/activist-rachel-williams-talks-sayhername-byp100/docview/1807741562/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "I don't have plans to finish my degree at this point of my life," said [Rachel Williams]. "Maybe one day when or if college education doesn't equal debt and having to hold off building a family because of the debt that you acquired trying to subscribe to a fake-ass American dream. Plus a degree shouldn't define your intelligence or worth in a capitalistic society."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=43&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2016-07-20&amp;atitle=Activist+Rachel+Williams+talks+%23SayHerName%2C+BYP100%2C+intersectionality&amp;au=Maxwell%2C+Carrie&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=43&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2016-07-20&amp;atitle=Activist+Rachel+Williams+talks+%23SayHerName%2C+BYP100%2C+intersectionality&amp;au=Maxwell%2C+Carrie&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Chicago native Rachel Williams has been an activist since their high school years at Chicago Public School's John Hope College Prep in Englewood. Along with their activist work, Williams also served on the student council and competed with the policy debate team at their high school.
Born in 1991, Williams grew up on the Far South Side. Like a lot of Black queer high school students, they struggled with accepting their identity. (Williams uses the pronoun "their.")
"My high school activism was limited to putting ribbons together in solidarity with Jena Six and also being an ensemble member with About Face Youth Theatre," said Williams. "Going north to Boystown and the Center on Halsted [the Center], I realized that this supposed utopia for LGBTQ people was a fantasy for those of us who weren't white cisgender gay men with a hell of a lot of access and money. Black and Brown youth were over-policed and made to feel not valued, but at the same time were used to bring funding into the Center. We were forced to go through the side door because we aren't a good representation to what the perfect clientele was. This was the a turning point for me as a Black queer person."
During Williams' high school years, between 50-60 students were lost to violence; this fact, along with their experiences in Boystown, has fueled their activism since the mid-2000s. Williams explained that, at the time, they thought the only way to do community work was to go to college, so they went to Kentucky State University, a historically Black college, but didn't finish school.
"I don't have plans to finish my degree at this point of my life," said Williams. "Maybe one day when or if college education doesn't equal debt and having to hold off building a family because of the debt that you acquired trying to subscribe to a fake-ass American dream. Plus a degree shouldn't define your intelligence or worth in a capitalistic society."
Williams returned to Chicago in the fall of 2013 and immediately dove into activist work. In November 2014, Williams got involved with Black Youth Project 100 (BYP100) and currently serves as an organizer with the group.
"I knew about BYP100 for quite some time before I actually took the plunge and joined their organization because I'd been scarred by other organizing spaces," said Williams.
Williams is also involved with the #SayHerName campaign-an initiative of the AfricanAmerican Policy Forum think tank that raises awareness and seeks justice for Black women who've been subject to police violence. They got involved when one of the leaders of BYP100 at the time brought them in as a co-lead for the campaign.
"The #SayHerName campaign was created to address how Black girls, women, femmes and gender non-conforming folks are treated by state sanctioned violence, intra-community violence as well as intimate partner violence and how that ties together," said Williams. "Because when the Black community at large talks about these issues, it's directed at cisgender Black males who most of the time identify with heteronormativity."
Along with their work with BYP100 and the #SayHerName campaign, Williams is also a debate coach at Michele Clark Magnet High School-a CPS school on the Far West Side of Chicago.
"I spent most of my high school career in policy debate," said Williams. "I wanted to give back in a way that's transformative, so I became a debate coach."
In light of the recent events in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and outside of St. Paul, Minnesota, where police shot and killed Alton Sterling and Philando Castile, respectively, Williams told Windy City Times that "the assault on Black bodies by the state has existed since the inception of the 'new world.' The notable deaths of Black men, including Alton Sterling, Philando Castle and Alva Braziel-[the latter] in Houston, Texas-aren't uncommon. The fact that we actually don't know the names of the countless nameless Black women (cis and trans), girls, femmes and men who've been killed by police is disturbing.
"Rodney King's beating brought the horror that Black folks have known about all our lives. Before camera phones, the collective consciousness of America took the words of the police for the truth and justified the execution of Black bodies. In this moment where Black death is playing on replay for mass consumption, the disregard for the families and friends who have to watch their family member's execution for ratings or newspaper sales is the new age version of lynching. The fact that two Black men were found hung in Atlanta and New Orleans isn't lost on me, either."
As for how their identity influences the work they do, Williams said, "I identify as a fat, differently able-bodied [they have cerebral palsy, a condition that permanently affects body movement, muscle coordination and balance], queer, Black femme. As a person at the margins of society in so many ways, I'm in a unique position to amplify the most marginalized voices in the work for Black liberation. When I look at a lot of organizations, I don't see any Black folks who are differently able-bodied, so I try to push the door open because many of us have felt neglected in spaces. One of my missions is to make sure that spaces are accessible and inclusive of everyone."
Williams is also working on political education and deep community building and plans on continuing their liberation work for the foreseeable future.
As for Williams' message to the world, they said, "Stop overpolicing Black and Brown folks."
See http://byp100.org/ and http://www. aapf.org/sayhername/ for more information.

Subject: Activists; Organizations; Gays & lesbians; African Americans; Campaigns; Police; Violence

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Williams, Rachel

Company / organization: Name: Black Youth Project 100; NAICS: 813319

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Activist Rachel Williams talks #SayHerName, BYP100, intersectionality

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 31

Issue: 43

Pages: 8

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2016

Publication date: Jul 20, 2016

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1807741562

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/activist-rachel-williams-talks-sayhername-byp100/docview/1807741562/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jul 20, 2016

Last updated: 2023-07-18

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Chicago's Latino community stands with the LGBTQ Latino community

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chicagos-latino-community-stands-with-lgbtq/docview/1805458366/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Even though this weekend's violent shooting was perhaps the most devastating, it was not an isolated event-violence towards the LGBTQ community is rampant. LGBTQ people are twice as likely to be victims of hate crimes, compared to other marginalized communities. For LGBTQ Latinos who experience racism, homophobia, and transphobia, the violence is far too common.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=39&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=18&amp;date=2016-06-22&amp;atitle=Chicago%27s+Latino+community+stands+with+the+LGBTQ+Latino+community&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=39&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=18&amp;date=2016-06-22&amp;atitle=Chicago%27s+Latino+community+stands+with+the+LGBTQ+Latino+community&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   CHICAGO (June 18)-This past weekend, the LGBTQ community was attacked in Orlando, Florida in what is considered to be the worst mass shooting in U.S. history. The shooting occurred at Pulse, a nightclub for the LGBTQ community, during its weekly "Latin" night. Forty-nine individuals died, and an additional 53 were injured. The majority of those victims are LGBTQ Latinos - they were our children, our brothers and sisters, our family. We send our condolences to the families and loved ones of those whose life was cut short during this senseless act.
Even though this weekend's violent shooting was perhaps the most devastating, it was not an isolated event-violence towards the LGBTQ community is rampant. LGBTQ people are twice as likely to be victims of hate crimes, compared to other marginalized communities. For LGBTQ Latinos who experience racism, homophobia, and transphobia, the violence is far too common. A national report conducted by the Human Rights Campaign and League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC) found that LGBTQ Latino youth are three times more likely to face harassment and violence than are their non-LGBTQ Latino peers-in their communities, in our communities. The violence directed at members of our community is something we can no longer ignore.
In light of the shooting in Orlando, we must come together, not only to help the LGBTQ Latino community heal, but also to act. Now more than ever, we must commit ourselves to eradicating homophobia and transphobia in our Latino communities. While there has been much progress for the LGBTQ community, such as marriage equality, we must continue to work to ensure that all LGBTQ people are able to live without fear of losing their lives due to intolerance and hate. We need to challenge the antiLGBTQ sentiments from within our own families and communities. We must remember that LGBTQ Latinos are part of our entire community, and that their love is just as important.
It is also imperative that our laws reflect our values to ensure we build safe communities for everyone. We must hold our elected officials and leaders accountable, rejecting hateful rhetoric that seeks to divide and cause harm. We must pressure them to work on policy that will ensure complete equality and fair treatment for the LGBTQ community as well as legislation that will put an end to this senseless gun violence. We must also be willing to stand in solidarity with other marginalized communities, we cannot allow this tragedy to perpetuate Islamophobia. Now more than ever we need to work and move forward in unison.
The Latino communities in Chicago, and our allies, stand with the Latino and LGBTQ communities in Orlando. We send our sympathy to the LGBTQ Latino community across the country that continues to mourn and begins to heal. We will stand with the LGBTQ community to end homophobia and transphobia once and for all.
-Eduardo Aguayo
United Latin@ Pride
-Oswaldo Alvarez
Program Developer
Chicago Cook Workforce Partnership
-Erick Amaya
Chair, Queer Prom
HIV Counselor, CALOR
-Honorable Jaime Andrade
State Representative, 40th District
Illinois House of Representatives
-Sandra Aponte
Program Officer
The Chicago Community Trust
-Omar Aquino
Nominee for State Senate, 2nd District
Illinois State Senate
-Dr. Jorge Argueta
Director, Avance, Inc.
Treasurer, Northwest Suburban Alliance Against
Domestic Violence
Cook County State Attorney's Office
LGBTQ Advisory Council
-Evette Cardona
Vice President of Programs
Polk Bros. Foundation
-Tonantzin L. Carmona
Director, Office of New Americans
Mayor's Office
City of Chicago
-Kara Carrell
United Latin@ Pride
-Jessica Carrillo
Executive Director
Youth Service Project
United Latin@ Pride
-Rodrigo Camilo
Board Secretary
ALMA
-Robert Castillo
Community Leader
-Martin R. Castro
Chairman
Castro Synergies,
U.S Commission on Civil Rights
-Kristin Chernawsky
Executive Director
Erie Neighborhood House
-Oscar Chacón
Executive Director
Alianza Americas
-Honorable William Delgado
State Senator, 2nd District
Illinois State Senate
-Evelyn Diaz
President
Heartland Alliance
-Antonio Elizondo
Youth Activist
Co-Founder, Vives Q
-Ricardo Estrada
President and CEO
Metropolitan Family Services
-Alfredo Flores
Mpowerment Facilitator
CALOR
-Sol Flores
Executive Director
La Casa Norte
-Emmanuel Garcia
Founder, Vives 0
National Steering Committee Member
Familia: Trans Queer Liberation Movement
-Rick Garcia
LGBTQ Community Leader
-David Gauna
Youth Activist
-Erik Elias Glenn
Executive Director
Chicago Black Gay Men's Caucus
-Liliana Gomez
Family Support Worker
Howard Area Community Center
-Alicia Gonzalez
Executive Director
Chicago Run
-Allen Govea
Teacher
Chicago Public Schools
-Adolfo Hernandez
Deputy Director, Public Engagement
Mayor's Office
City of Chicago
-Carlos Hernandez Falcon
Executive Director
Puerto Rican Arts Alliance
-Juanita Irizarry
Community Leader
-Alma Izquierdo
LGBTQ Community Leader
-Marco Jacome
Chief Executive Officer
Healthcare Alternative Systems, Inc. (H.A.S.)
-Daniel Loftus
CEO
PODER
-Daniel Lopez
Psychotherapist/Clinical Supervisor
-Honorable Raymond Lopez
Alderman, 15th Ward
Chicago City Council
-Agustin R. Maldonado
Board Member
Youth Service Project
-Honorable Roberto Maldonado
Alderman, 26th Ward
Chicago City Council
-Kenny Martin-Ocasio
Vice President
Association of Latino/as Motivating Action
-Constantino Mizis
CEO
The Latino Alzheimer's & Memory Disorders Alliance
-Juan Morado Jr.
Communications Secretary
Hispanic Lawyers Association of Illinois
-Honorable Joe Moreno
Alderman, 1st Ward
Chicago City Council
-Patricia Mota
President
Hispanic Alliance for Career Enhancement
-David Ernesto Munar
President & CEO
Howard Brown Health
-Jose M. Muñoz
Vice President
The Resurrection Project
-Mona Noriega
Chair, Commissioner
Chicago Commission on Human Relations
-Katya Nuques
Executive Director
Enlace Chicago
-Karari Olvera
United Latin@ Pride
-Cristina Pacione-Zayas
Co-Chair
The Puerto Rican Agenda
-Andre Perez
Director
America in Transition
-David Tlateollin Pesqueira
Program Officer
McCormick Foundation
-Maria Pesqueira
President & CEO
Mujeres Latinas en Acción
-Sylvia Puente
Executive Director
Latino Policy Forum
-Dulce M. Quintero
Orgullo en Acción
-Edgar Ramirez
President & CEO
Chicago Commons
-Honorable Carlos Ramirez-Rosa
Alderman, 35th Ward
Chicago City Council
-Orlando Reyes
Board Member
Association of Latino/as Motivating Action
-Teresa Reyes
Associate
Birrierias Ocotldn
-José Rico
Senior Vice President
United Way of Metropolitan Chicago
-Amalia Rioja
Community Member
-Alma Rodriguez
Program Officer
The Chicago Community Trust
-Julio Rodriguez
President
Association of Latino/as Motivating Action
-Luis Román
Advocacy Chair
Association of Latino/as Motivating Action
-Roberto M. Romero-Perez
Attorney
-Jackie Rosa
Senior Program Officer
United Way of Metropolitan Chicago
-Anel Ruiz
Community Leader
-Mony Ruiz-Velasco, Esq.
Executive Director
PASO - West Suburban Action Project
-Carlos Samaniego
Community Leader
-Roberto Sanabria
Member, Board of Directors
Puerto Rican Cultural Center of Chicago
-Sofia G. Sambia
OYES
Amigas Unidas En La Fe
Familia Latinas Unidas
-Pedro Serrano
United Latin@ Pride
-Afonos Treviño Jr
President
Illinois Alumni Association
Phi Iota Alpha Fraternity, Inc.
-Carlos Tortolero
President & Founder
National Museum of Mexican Art
-Alicia Tellez Vega
Youth Ministry
Queer Youth Exploring Spirituality of
Lincoln United Methodist Church
-Maritxa Vidal
Chapter President
TransLatin@ Coalition - Chicago
-Honorable Gilberto Villegas
Alderman, 36th Ward
Chicago City Council,
-Joseph Wirtz
Community Member

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Hispanic Americans; Massacres; Nightclubs; Community support

Location: Chicago Illinois; Orlando Florida; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Chicago's Latino community stands with the LGBTQ Latino community

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 31

Issue: 39

Pages: 18-19

Number of pages: 2

Publication year: 2016

Publication date: Jun 22, 2016

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1805458366

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chicagos-latino-community-stands-with-lgbtq/docview/1805458366/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jun 22, 2016

Last updated: 2023-07-18

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Making sense of senseless acts

Author: Baim, Tracy

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/making-sense-senseless-acts/docview/1799876636/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: A history of violence courses through the veins of the LGBTQIA community-in Chicago, nationally and internationally. The victims and survivors have come from every letter of the LGBTQIA alphabet, every race, class, religion, ethnicity, ability and age. Some have made headlines, such as Matthew Shepard and Brandon Teena, or those 32 people killed in 1973 at a gay bar in New Orleans-up until this week, the largest single targeted murder of LGBTQIAs in history.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=38&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2016-06-15&amp;atitle=Making+sense+of+senseless+acts&amp;au=Baim%2C+Tracy&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=38&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2016-06-15&amp;atitle=Making+sense+of+senseless+acts&amp;au=Baim%2C+Tracy&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   We see their young faces now. Mostly Latino, mostly young, male and female. Out for a good time on a Saturday night in Orlando, theme park capital of the world.
There is no way to make whole what has been torn to shreds. For those who lost family and friends, the scars will remain no matter how much time passes.
A history of violence courses through the veins of the LGBTQIA community-in Chicago, nationally and internationally. The victims and survivors have come from every letter of the LGBTQIA alphabet, every race, class, religion, ethnicity, ability and age. Some have made headlines, such as Matthew Shepard and Brandon Teena, or those 32 people killed in 1973 at a gay bar in New Orleans-up until this week, the largest single targeted murder of LGBTQIAs in history.
Some were not well known, but their collective death raised alarms, such as the murder of more than 20 transgender women, mostly women of color, in this country in 2015.
Chicago's LGBTQIA community has seen its share of victims and survivors for as long as there has been a community. Some were victimized by those in power, including police, while others were murdered by assailants unknown and unprosecuted. Others were killed in domestic violence, some in "stranger danger" pickups gone bad.
We report on these tragedies one at a time, or in groups. We also know that violence in society overall disproportionately targets those living in poverty, those who are people of color, those who are LGBTQIA and other overlapping categories deemed "other" by some of those who wield power.
The LGBTQIA community has also been dealt other kinds of wounds-and one that tried to take out whole segments of our alphabet lives. Gay men and transgender women have experienced devastating losses during the 35-yearold AIDS crisis. In those early years, it was funeral after funeral.
We cared for our own, fought for our own, fed our own, found illegal drugs for our own, and buried our own.
Having covered this beautiful, tortured, difficult community for 32 years, I am not sure how all this death has not gotten to me. I was 21 years old when I started at GayLife newspaper in 1984, and then 22 years old when I co-founded Windy City Times in 1985. I was immediately covering death, like a young cub reporter dropped into a war zone. It was AIDS, it was murder, it was suicide.
I covered when moms and dads lost custody of their children simply for being LGBTQIA. One story that will always be with me, the case of Sharon Kowalski, badly injured in a car accident, kept from her loving partner Karen Thompson by a family who denied that love so much that they hurt their own child's recovery.
It was even serial killers-I mean, really, at 21 I was covering Larry Eyler chopping up the body of 15-year-old Danny Bridges, among 22 young men and boys he killed in Chicago and the Midwest. Followed in 1991 by Jeffrey Dahmer, who killed 17 young men and boys, traveling through Chicago bars with his self-hate and murderous rage.
But it was always, always, always more. It was drag queens, leather queens, softball dykes, basketball dudes, radical political activists, philanthropists, professionals, politicians, poets, musicians, artists, writers, actors, dancers, seniors and street kids. It was everything, and it could usually drown out the horrible headlines.
I also lucked out in meeting some of our community's early heroes, men and women who took me under their wing, trusting me with their stories, and sharing their amazing work in the 1960s and 1970s. While I was growing up in those decades, they were growing the community.
These stories, and these tragedies, also made me very aware at a very young age how precious life is. I was covering and working beside people my age or slightly older living their last days and weeks. They honored me by giving me time to tell their stories, and take their photos, before they died. I was on the front lines of history, feeling a great call to make sure these gay men, transgender women, lesbians with cancer, and so many others did not die without their voices heard.
They still motivate me today, and they should also motivate us as a community to realize the collective sacrifice has been great, and we can add the sacrifice of those killed and injured in Orlando to our pyre of pain.
We have conquered so much, and grown and shown the world our pride will not die. It can't be murdered, it can't be shoved back in the closet, it can't be stymied by any amount of hatred that is thrown at it.
Our community is very used to coping with death and dying. But we are equally fabulous at life and living.

Subject: Hispanic Americans; Gays & lesbians; Violence; Victims of crime

Location: Orlando Florida; Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Making sense of senseless acts

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 31

Issue: 38

Pages: 16

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2016

Publication date: Jun 15, 2016

Section: viewpoints

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 1799876636

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/making-sense-senseless-acts/docview/1799876636/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jun 15, 2016

Last updated: 2023-07-18

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

'Mudderella' June 4

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mudderella-june-4/docview/1792394805/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Mudderella events are non-competitive challenges designed to empower women to work together while overcoming obstacles and having fun.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=34&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=24&amp;date=2016-05-18&amp;atitle=%27Mudderella%27+June+4&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=34&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=24&amp;date=2016-05-18&amp;atitle=%27Mudderella%27+June+4&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Mudderella, the five-mile-plus obstacle course challenge designed for women by women, will make its third return to Chicago on Saturday, June 4.
Mudderella events are non-competitive challenges designed to empower women to work together while overcoming obstacles and having fun. Each course includes 12-15 signature Mudderella obstacles designed to test balance, agility, strength and teamwork in a fun and social setting.
More than 5,000 participants took part in the 2015 Chicago event, and this year's event is expected to be one of the biggest yet. Mudderella is a partner of Futures Without Violence, and its mission to prevent and put an end to domestic violence by developing educational programs and resources on domestic-violence awareness.
See http://mudderella.com/events/chicago-2016/.

Subject: Women; Special events

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: 'Mudderella' June 4

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 31

Issue: 34

Pages: 24

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2016

Publication date: May 18, 2016

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1792394805

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mudderella-june-4/docview/1792394805/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 18, 2016

Last updated: 2023-07-18

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Talking with prison abolitionist Mariame Kaba

Author: Nair, Yasmin

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/talking-with-prison-abolitionist-mariame-kaba/docview/1791019430/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Ever since I've known her, [Mariame Kaba]'s always been there doing that work with organizations like Broadway Youth Center and Young Women's Action Team, and has always been actively engaged in supporting and collaborating with youth around these issues. So it's not surprising that she has helped create a large cadre of people who are now doing so much radical work: she's deep rooted in their organizations.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=33&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2016-05-11&amp;atitle=Talking+with+prison+abolitionist+Mariame+Kaba&amp;au=Nair%2C+Yasmin&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=33&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2016-05-11&amp;atitle=Talking+with+prison+abolitionist+Mariame+Kaba&amp;au=Nair%2C+Yasmin&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   To anyone who knows her, prison abolitionist Mariame Kaba is a force of nature. On any given day, she might be in court in the morning, supporting a teenager facing incarceration, then leading a community discussion on the history of Black radical organizing, and then giving a presentation on young women and the juvenile justice system in the evening.
Kaba is also a prominent social media presence, mostly on Twitter where her sly, snarky and often pointed critiques of social policy around incarceration have earned her a massive following. All this has happened with very few pictures of her: She loathes being photographed, and does not part easily with photos of herself.
One night, as I prepared to drop exhausted into my own bed, I tweeted her, asking how she did it all. "Insomnia" was the answer.
Mariame Kaba moved to Chicago from her beloved native city of New York in 1995. After 21 years, and having become a fixture in the city's social justice and prison abolition movements, Kaba is now moving back to New York, leaving behind large cadres of activists actively mourning her departure. Even casual conversations with her friends and co-organisers indicate a real, palpable sense of loss.
It is easy to lionize Kaba, whose energy and dedication to the cause of prison abolition has mobilized and sustained several organizations like Project NIA, which she founded, and Chicago Freedom School, which she was instrumental in forming. She has also been involved with groups like Young Women's Empowerment Project, and several of the activists in Black Lives Matter, Black Youth Project, and Assata's Daughters, all key players in the recent overthrow of Anita Alavarez, originally began working with her when they were teenagers. Her reach and influence is long-standing and extends to many seemingly disparate parts of the city. She has also frequently served as advisor to groups like Gender JUST (with which I am involved), helping them to find resources and become and stay sustainable. Her list of accomplishments and awards is long.
But to simply focus on Kaba as an individual is to miss the larger and very queer context in which her work has come about and, in very specific ways, made possible.
When Kaba first came here, the term "prison abolition" was barely heard or even understood as a point of discussion on either the local or the national level. Today, phrases like "prison industrial complex" (PIC) and "incarceration" are used by mainstream presidential candidates like Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders. Even Republican candidates have begun to call for reform of the incarceration system.
But reform is not what Kaba or her fellow activists are after. What they want is full-scale abolition, the end of the prison system and the establishment of practices that take community needs into account. In practical terms: Where the conventional system might throw everyone into prison, usually for long periods or even forever, systems like Transformative and Restorative Justice (TJ and RJ) call for both perpetrators and victims to receive support as they work towards establishing a different set of priorities to achieve "justice," including forms of personal restitution.
TJ and RJ are only beginning to gain attention and while there is a lot of calling for reform, abolition itself might still be a long way away. But in the years since 1995, Chicago has become the national epicenter of a movement of resistance to the PIC and police brutality.
The Laquan McDonald shooting was only one of many flashpoints in a contentious election between then incumbent cook county state's attorney Anita Alvarez and challenger Kim Foxx. In the month leading up to the election, Alvarez was clearly slated to win. But a coalition of queer and mostly Black activists from groups like Assata's Daughters, Black Youth Project, and Black Lives Matter coordinated a stunning effort across the city. They distributed hundreds of flyers with the hashtag #ByeAnita everywhere, and achieved banner drops to drive home the point. Versions of the banner included one with the words, "Blood on the ballot."
The current push to end the PIC among mostly queer radicals did not come out of the blue.
Speaking with Windy City Times about her activist work, Kaba spoke about her early experiences in the domestic violence sector. In New York, she had been volunteering for rape crisis centers and domestic violence organizations like Sanctuary for Families. Once in Chicago, she looked for similar opportunities, and found work at Friends of Battered Women and Children (now renamed Between Friends).
"I initially thought I wanted to end genderbased violence," she said, and continued, "I felt interpersonal violence was what I wanted to work against." But as she continued her work, it dawned on her that the domestic violence sector was "mostly in the business of managing. The point was not to eradicate but manage the problem. There was no cause analysis."
As an example, she pointed to her experience in New York City: "I was the coordinator of an emergency shelters in Brooklyn. Even the rules put in place-about the time they could come in for their curfew, for instance-were all about taking away their ability to be agents of their own lives, even as we were giving people safety for the short term. But we were turning our wheels, we were very individualistic," without looking more closely at systemic problems.
Kaba's increasing discomfort and eventual resistance to such a system meant that she felt more alienated and was, as she put it with a laugh, eventually "exiled out of the traditional domestic violence/sexual assault" field.
The year 2000 saw the founding of INCITE!, an anti-PIC group out of California. INCITEi's second conference was in Chicago, in 2002, and here Kaba became a key organizer, alongside colleagues and local activists like Kristin Millikan and Prudence Browne. The event included critiques of the PIC and the domestic violence industry.
In Chicago, Kaba continued working on these issues with an expanding group of activists like Shira Hassan, Lewis Wallace, Sabrina Hampton, and Megan Selby. Black and Pink, an abolitionist group which works directly with LGBTQ prisoners, founded a chapter in the city.
Kaba was also constantly organizing teaching collectives, where people would gather to read and understand the history of Black radical organizing, the kind of work done mostly by Black women and which remains relatively unacknowledged (many of the resources can be found on her blog Prison Culture). Page May, who would go on to become a leading figure in the #ByeAnita campaign and a co-founder of Assata's Daughters, first met Kaba during one such collective.
Windy City Times asked Kaba what might have attracted so many queer people to her work. She pointed out that such work had already been happening, with groups like Queer to the Left, Women and Girls Collective, and Gender JUST. All these critiqued the expansion of the PIC in different ways, even if not under the rubric of prison abolition. But, she added, "Queerness is also a way in which you are marginalized and have to reshape your identity," and the work around prison abolition calls forth people who understand the damage the PIC does to individuals and groups.
There's also a historical connection, in terms of direct action, something that queers engaged in relentlessly during the height of the AIDS crisis. Kaba pointed out that, "Direct action is more accepted in this generation; blockades and banner drops make sense to them."
Those who have worked with Kaba attest to her ability to not just organize but create extensive and effective networks of support. Hannah Baptiste, a member of Assata's Daughters recalled meeting Kaba four years ago, after moving here from Washingon D.C: "I had the impression that organizing in radical communities was about creating Community with a capital C, that everyone had to be friends with each other to make anything happen. But here in Chicago, with Mariame at the helm, organizing was based in being accountable to each other in terms of the lenses of the issues, rather than friendship. It was important to see a black woman who was undoubtedly leading so much of the organizing force but not through a cult of personality, which often looks like vying for attention."
As for why so many queers were attracted to the work, Baptiste said that "Mariame laid this amazing groundwork that allowed folks to come into their own, with queer or radical politics, in a way that helps other folks deepen and broaden their analysis. Organizing around prison abolition and queer organizing work are rooted in the same creative impetus to radically reimagine a different way of doing things. It's a world with queer radical sensibilities, and Mariame made space for everyone, wherever they're at."
Ann Russo, associate professor in women and gender studies at DePaul concurred on the matter of Kaba's ability to bring a range of people into organizing. The two first met in 2004, in the context of domestic violence and sexual assault organizing, around the time both were becoming disillusioned about the nature of that work.
"Ever since I've known her, Mariame's always been there doing that work with organizations like Broadway Youth Center and Young Women's Action Team, and has always been actively engaged in supporting and collaborating with youth around these issues. So it's not surprising that she has helped create a large cadre of people who are now doing so much radical work: she's deep rooted in their organizations. In terms of queer folks she is always someone who didn't care what people thought, and was always challenging homophobia and transphobia.''
Given her key role in Chicago organizing, what happens when Kaba finally moves away in mid-May? Russo says that the work will continue precisely because her model has been to demonstrate how to organize for maximum impact: "She doesn't take over what she asks you to do, she just expects you to do it. She's always challenging the idea that 'no one is doing it.' Instead, she just asks, how do we do this; it's about the creation of resources and a focus on strategies."
Baptiste is similarly optimistic: "I think that the place that Chicago is in right now, is one with very strong robust networks, because Mariame has been in Chicago for 20-30 years and she has set those networks in motion. We will be just fine, if a little sadder."

Subject: Activists; Juvenile justice; Juvenile offenders; Gays & lesbians; Social justice; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Kaba, Mariame

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Talking with prison abolitionist Mariame Kaba

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 31

Issue: 33

Pages: 10

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2016

Publication date: May 11, 2016

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1791019430

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/talking-with-prison-abolitionist-mariame-kaba/docview/1791019430/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 11, 2016

Last updated: 2023-07-18

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Assault, violence groups release statement

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/assault-violence-groups-release-statement/docview/1790175478/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Safety and privacy are important for all of us," said Terri Poore, policy director at the National Alliance to End Sexual Violence. "Passing laws like the one in North Carolina to harm transgender people, or denying them protection from discrimination, does nothing to help survivors of violence...

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=31&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2016-04-27&amp;atitle=Assault%2C+violence+groups+release+statement&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=31&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2016-04-27&amp;atitle=Assault%2C+violence+groups+release+statement&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Amid the national uproar over a North Carolina law that codified discrimination against transgender people, more than 250 sexualassault and domestic-violence organizations released a landmark statement calling for an end to legislation that harms transgender people and excludes them from restrooms and other facilities.
"Safety and privacy are important for all of us," said Terri Poore, policy director at the National Alliance to End Sexual Violence. "Passing laws like the one in North Carolina to harm transgender people, or denying them protection from discrimination, does nothing to help survivors of violence or reduce assault. In fact, they do the opposite by putting transgender people at even greater risk of violence than they already are." The full statement is available online at http://endsexualviolence.org/files/NTFNationalConsensusStmtTransAccessWithSignatories.pdf.

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Assault, violence groups release statement

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 31

Issue: 31

Pages: 6

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2016

Publication date: Apr 27, 2016

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 1790175478

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/assault-violence-groups-release-statement/docview/1790175478/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Apr 27, 2016

Last updated: 2023-07-18

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

'Mudderella' June 4

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mudderella-june-4/docview/1789092654/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Mudderella events are non-competitive challenges designed to empower women to work together while overcoming obstacles and having fun.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=30&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=25&amp;date=2016-04-20&amp;atitle=%27Mudderella%27+June+4&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=30&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=25&amp;date=2016-04-20&amp;atitle=%27Mudderella%27+June+4&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Mudderella, the five-mile-plus obstacle course challenge designed for women by women, will make its third return to Chicago on Saturday, June 4.
Mudderella events are non-competitive challenges designed to empower women to work together while overcoming obstacles and having fun. Each course includes 12-15 signature Mudderella obstacles designed to test balance, agility, strength and teamwork in a fun and social setting.
More than 5,000 participants took part in the 2015 Chicago event, and this year's event is expected to be one of the biggest yet. Mudderella is a partner of Futures Without Violence, and its mission to prevent and put an end to domestic violence by developing educational programs and resources on domestic-violence awareness.
See http://mudderella.com/events/chicago-2016/.

Subject: Women; Domestic violence; Crime prevention; Tournaments & championships; Teamwork

Business indexing term: Subject: Teamwork

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: 'Mudderella' June 4

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 31

Issue: 30

Pages: 25

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2016

Publication date: Apr 20, 2016

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1789092654

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mudderella-june-4/docview/1789092654/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Apr 20, 2016

Last updated: 2023-07-18

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Activist/scholar Richie keynotes International Women's Day event

Author: Maxwell, Carrie

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/activist-scholar-richie-keynotes-international/docview/1786249855/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: To commemorate International Women's Day; the YWCA Evanston/North Shore, Northwestern University Women's Center, The Woman's Club of Evanston, Evanston Women's History Project, Frances Willard Historical Association, the League of Women Voters of Evanston and the City of Evanston co-sponsored a breakfast event featuring a keynote address, "Gender Violence: Addressing Injustice," by activist, author and scholar Beth E.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=25&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2016-03-16&amp;atitle=Activist%2Fscholar+Richie+keynotes+International+Women%27s+Day+event&amp;au=Maxwell%2C+Carrie&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=25&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2016-03-16&amp;atitle=Activist%2Fscholar+Richie+keynotes+International+Women%27s+Day+event&amp;au=Maxwell%2C+Carrie&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   To commemorate International Women's Day; the YWCA Evanston/North Shore, Northwestern University Women's Center, The Woman's Club of Evanston, Evanston Women's History Project, Frances Willard Historical Association, the League of Women Voters of Evanston and the City of Evanston co-sponsored a breakfast event featuring a keynote address, "Gender Violence: Addressing Injustice," by activist, author and scholar Beth E. Richie March 8 at First United Methodist Church in Evanston.
International Women's Day (March 8) is a global celebration of the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women as well as a call for gender parity in all aspects of life.
Richie is the author of Arrested Justice, Black Women, Violence and America's Prison Nation as well as a professor of African-American studies and criminology, law and justice at the University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC). She also wrote Compelled to Crime: the Gender Entrapment of Black Battered Women and has received the Audre Lorde Legacy Award from the Union Institute, The Advocacy Award from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and The Visionary Award from the Violence Intervention Project.
Following words of welcome and an introduction by Cece Lobin (Chicagoland area women's empowerment coordinator), Richie told the approximately 300 people in attendance that leaders like Lobin are essential to the work of promoting women's equality across the board.
Richie spoke about the way race/ethnicity and social position affect women's experiences of violence and incarceration worldwide.
"I began my academic and activist work over 30 years ago, working with local and national community organizations, to try and figure out the link between violence against women and the problem of mass incarceration ... the way that both affect women of color, queer people, poor people, immigrants and young people," said Richie.
Richie explained that amidst the conversation around racial justice, there are silos around gender and sexuality that included women, girls and gender non-conforming people who experience different kinds of oppression than men of color. She also noted the importance of reminding Black men that gender matters and white women that race matters.
"Today, the only way to challenge gender violence is to square it with racial inequality," said Richie.
Richie said that 1.3 million women each year report instances of gender violence. She noted that there are many forms of gender violence, including intimate partner violence, sexual assault/rape and stalking. Richie explained that many of these women lose days at work due to gender violence and that sometimes their injuries turn into permanent disabilities.
She noted that, of the women who experience gender violence, those who have less social power-such as poor women, women of color, undocumented women and members of the LGBTQ community-face a society where their voices are ignored.
Richie asked the audience to think about two things when considering the issue of gender violence: the country's status as a prison nation and carcéral feminism.
When talking about a prison nation, Richie said, "The way this country has divested from communities, particularly communities of color, in the areas of health and human services because we blame people for their problems contributes to this issue. ... We have new laws, new codes of behavior ... coupled with the ideology that suggests poor people, immigrants, Black/Latina women and trans people are undeserving of our help. Their rights are disregarded to protect others."
As for carcéral feminism-defined as a feminist who believes that women who've been raped or have experienced other forms of male violence should be protected by the criminaljustice system-Richie noted that many times this doesn't happen, stating the criminal-justice system often ignores or criminalizes women who experience gender violence.
Richie explained that one such case of carcéral feminism not working was in 2006 when a group of Black lesbians was violently attacked by a man in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New York City. She noted that when they fought back, they were arrested and charged with a felony. This story was featured in the documentary Out in the Night.
During the Q&A session, Richie said she feels optimistic about the future. She explained that from what she's seen, people are ready to make a change for the better.
She also noted that despite what others have said, guns are dangerous and don't keep people safe.
At the close of the event, both Lobin and Richie put out a call to action for all attendees to get involved with this work in order to end gender violence and make the world a more equitable place for everyone.

Subject: Speakers; Activists; Special events; Women

Location: Evanston Illinois; United States--US

People: Richie, Beth E

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Activist/scholar Richie keynotes International Women's Day event

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 31

Issue: 25

Pages: 10

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2016

Publication date: Mar 16, 2016

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chic ago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1786249855

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/activist-scholar-richie-keynotes-international/docview/1786249855/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 16, 2016

Last updated: 2023-07-18

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

in the LIFE: Kyle J Krueger

Author: Forman, Ross

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/life-kyle-j-krueger/docview/1763788754/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "It's really just a job," [Kyle J. Krueger] said. "A lot of these guys have become my good friends, so I'm quite used to seeing the guys and getting up in their business to paint them. To me it's just a 3D canvass. It's hard to think of anything else in the moment when getting them painted and dressed in short amounts of time.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=17&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2016-01-20&amp;atitle=in+the+LIFE%3A+Kyle+J+Krueger&amp;au=Forman%2C+Ross&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=17&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2016-01-20&amp;atitle=in+the+LIFE%3A+Kyle+J+Krueger&amp;au=Forman%2C+Ross&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Kyle J. Krueger long wanted to be a professional voice actor, and art was a passive hobby of his.
That hobby, though, has since flourished. "I was lucky enough to have a talent for [art]," he said. "I really truly fell into this role [as a self-employed freelance artist] and couldn't be happier."
While in college, Krueger started doing makeup for shows he was in, and then was roped into doing makeup and set design for the haunted attraction industry. "I was also an educator and assistant art director at a children's museum, where I often worked in illustration and marketing endeavors," he said. "I then shifted focus to pursue the visual arts more seriously and had my hands in many disciplines."
He is classically trained in the fine arts, and began to curate exhibitions and collaborate with other artist of different fields. "My role in the art community became focused in photography, special-effects makeup, body painting, and costume design," he said.
Krueger has worked with designers and companies such as Timothy Westbrook, Silversark, Epic Creative, Inside The Haunt Industry and Neverland (NVRLND).
"I am very involved in many facets [of] the arts," he said. "Recently I have founded an awareness campaign on sexual violence the LGBTQ community, featuring my surreal and macabre photography work. I also get commissions for paintings, murals, sculptural work, and high-fashion, special effects makeup design. I get to travel throughout the Midwest and work with all different kinds of people."
Krueger is planning to relocate to Chicago in 2016.
"I'd like to eventually freelance full time, and/or for a studio continuing to work in a variety of mediums," he said.
So what's the best part of your job?
"Telling people why my fingers are constantly stained questionable colors," he said, laughing. "[Seriously, it is] creative problem solving. No matter the commission, task, or job, I work in a field that requires constant problem-solving, collaboration, and learning on the fly. I often dive into areas I'm not failure with and rapidly develop my artistic skill set to achieve the end result."
The worst part of his job is "knowing that I can always be better, and that there is always someone better skilled than you in something," he said.
His work certainly puts him in some ... interesting situations. "I've seen more porn stars, drag queens, club kids, go-go boys and the like in various stages of dress and undress, and it's funny to be reminded that I'm being paid to be in this environment," he said.
So what's it like "working" with countless sexy, scantily-clad men?
"It's really just a job," Krueger said. "A lot of these guys have become my good friends, so I'm quite used to seeing the guys and getting up in their business to paint them. To me it's just a 3D canvass. It's hard to think of anything else in the moment when getting them painted and dressed in short amounts of time.
"I've also dated a professional drag queen and have several talented professional queens who are friends, so I've seen, heard, and smelled it all. Little phases me now."
Krueger has adopted a serious matter within the LGBT community: In Arms reaches and teaches the community about sexual violence and abuse, including those in the community who have survived serious experiences.
"In Arms is dedicated to bringing awareness issues surrounding sexual violence in our community, highlighting resources available to survivors, generating conversation, and creating a community for services to develop a voice, be heard, share and be welcomed in open arms," he said. "I am so passionate [about] the arts because it has always been an escape and a type [of] therapy for many experiences in my life. Particularly, In Arms is a project that stems from my own survivor story as I am intimately aware of the effects of sexual assaults and domestic abuse has on a person.
"These are not seen as obstacles in my mind. Rather, they are unscripted opportunities for me to learn from and help others. No matter how hard life can get, someone somewhere has had a similar struggle or worse. I treat these experiences as a tool, and although my tool belt is quite full of negative and hard struggles, it is balanced by positive and fortunate experiences."
For more information about In Arms, go to www.inarms.us.
Sidebar * Age
25
* City of residence
Milwaukee, Wisconsin
* Relationship status
Single
* Orientation
Gay
* Job title
Self-employed freelance artist and part-time visual merchandising/ sales specialist at Apple
* Favorite drink
Whiskey and Coke
* Favorite TV shows
Bob's Burgers, Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt, and Law & Order: SVU
* Favorite movies
Drop Dead Gorgeous
* Little-known fact
"[A] great grandpa was one of the original Ringling Brothers."

Subject: Artists; Ambition; Gays & lesbians; Occupational choice

Business indexing term: Subject: Occupational choice

People: Krueger, Kyle J

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: in the LIFE: Kyle J Krueger

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 31

Issue: 17

Pages: 11

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2016

Publication date: Jan 20, 2016

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1763788754

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/life-kyle-j-krueger/docview/1763788754/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jan 20, 2016

Last updated: 2023-06-23

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Affinity holds annual Burning Bowl, names new director

Author: Hammond, Gretchen Rachel

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/affinity-holds-annual-burning-bowl-names-new/docview/1761156125/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: For Affinity, Black lives have always mattered," [Rupert-Gordon] added. "That's what makes me proud of, not just our past, but for our future. In the next 20 years, we will continue to serve in trans communities, we will prioritize Black voices and highlight the experiences of lesbian, bisexual and queer women. We will work to eliminate wage gaps and experience education. We will work to ensure that people like us are informed about voting and policies that matter to us.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=16&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2016-01-13&amp;atitle=Affinity+holds+annual+Burning+Bowl%2C+names+new+director&amp;au=Hammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=16&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2016-01-13&amp;atitle=Affinity+holds+annual+Burning+Bowl%2C+names+new+director&amp;au=Hammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Affinity Community Service's annual Burning Bowl has traditionally dispensed with the old by setting it to flame, while the ashes of lessons learned during the past year provide the fuel for determination to improve-and so be empowered to create and celebrate the new.
However, the 2016 event offered something starkly different from previous years.
The enthusiastic Jan 9. audience of Affinity supporters and allies packed into St. Martin's Episcopal Church-a West Side first for the 20-year-old organization-and took the occasion to, this time, honor both old and new.
The flames of the Burning Bowl set up beyond the stained glass of the church building served to ignite a torch passed to new leadership and a new direction.
The extensive and painstaking search to replace Affinity Executive Director Kim Hunt- who left in 2015 to helm the Pride Action Tank-culminated in the introduction of Imani Rupert-Gordon. She took the stage and Hunt's former position to exuberant applause.
Rupert-Gordon has a lifelong history of fighting for social justice. She has been director of the Broadway Youth Center (BYC) and is the founder of the Social Fiction Conference (SFC), which used science fiction, fantasy and gaming models to facilitate greater discussions between attending students and faculty about issues such as identity and how to dismantle societal bias and oppression.
She will officially become Affinity's executive director on Monday, Feb. 1. While describing her appointment as an "honor," Rupert-Gordon is also well aware of the mountain of work which lies ahead.
"We see that trans women of color face unfathomable violence and discrimination," she told the audience. "We see our young Black sisters, brothers, sons and daughters being killed at the hands of people that are sworn to protect us. But every time I get discouraged about fighting the same battles we did 20 years ago, I am struck by another constant: Affinity."
"For Affinity, Black lives have always mattered," Rupert-Gordon added. "That's what makes me proud of, not just our past, but for our future. In the next 20 years, we will continue to serve in trans communities, we will prioritize Black voices and highlight the experiences of lesbian, bisexual and queer women. We will work to eliminate wage gaps and experience education. We will work to ensure that people like us are informed about voting and policies that matter to us. We will continue the legacy. Who knows what we will be coming together to celebrate again? Who knows what past pains we will be ready to burn?"
For the present, Board President Ebonie S. Davis celebrated Affinity's accomplishments in 2015 and acknowledged the myriad of people who helped found, shape, nurture and expand the organization over the past two decades, not the least of whom was Barbara "Robbie" Smith who passed away in March of last year.
Davis described the Affinity founding board member as a "friend and mother to many that walked through Affinity's doors. For at least 13 years of our existence, she kept the financial growth of this organization in a manner we could only dream of."
To that end, this year's Burning Bowl included the presentation of the Barbara "Robbie" Smith Award of Excellence-created to honor an individual who exemplifies her legacy through leadership, perseverance, strength, compassion and integrity.
The recipient was Mary F. Morten-president of the Morten Group, who has received multiple accolades for her leadership regarding social change, public policy and advocacy.
Morten aided Affinity through a year that was not only transitional but defining in its level of accomplishment and number of new partnerships forged.
"We saw an increase in funding for programs across the board," Davis said. "We received some of the largest grants in the organization's history for HIV services and to provide direct services and assistance for seniors in the LGBT community. We were also instrumental partners in bipartisan laws that went into effect on January 1: a ban on conversion therapy for LGBT youth and the first-ever law specifically allowing transgender individuals to specify gender identity in funeral and burial arrangements."
Yet Davis also noted the long list of work to be done, such as addressing the systematic and unlawful detainments of Black trans women; unspoken rapes and sexual violence against Black trans men; the rate of pregnancy, STD and STIs among Black young people; immigration reform; and the coming battle against a Religious Freedom act currently being pushed by Springfield lawmakers in response to marriage equality.
"No longer can we say we are allies. We must be advocates," Davis said. "We must take back our lives. Affinity is up to the task."
This year's Burning Bowl therefore required a more unilateral effort and declaration. Participants were encouraged not only to burn their own personal negative experiences but those affecting the community at large-homelessness, prejudice, injustice, gun and domestic violence, unemployment and silence were just a few written on a large sheet of paper that was the first to be put to the fire.
They were replaced by a collective agreement to bring-among other things shouted out by the audience-love, positivity, activism, joy, peace and justice in 2016.
In delivering her keynote address after a prolonged ovation in gratitude for her years of unparalleled service to Affinity, Hunt recalled a quote from author Octavia E. Butler's Earthseed that has defined her life: "All that you touch, you change. All that you change, changes you."
Hunt asserted that the event's theme of Passing the Torch was not only fitting organizationally but for the days ahead.
"I am literally in awe of the organizing work that's going on among young Black activists today," she said. "They are really honoring the history of resistance of Black people from the time we arrived on these shores. It brings me great joy to know that there are Affinity connections in terms of the organizations and collectives moving this work forward."
"Organizations like Affinity are precious gifts to the LGBTQ community," Hunt noted. "They are rarer and rarer."
According to Hunt, for Affinity to continue to pass the torch successfully involves planning and recognizing its imperfections, embracing fear, letting go and understanding that "you don't have to have the torch to have it right."
"In times of change, we have to remember to offer each other grace, benevolence and patience," she said. "We have to be flexible. We have to face hard truths through transitions because our ultimate goal is about serving the people. Giving up the torch frees your hand to accept new possibilities and accepting the torch allows you to build upon the progress and the lessons of the past and light the way forward."
Masters of Ceremonies for this year's Burning Bowl were internet radio show host and "peace and love poet" Niki Gee alongside veteran social service organizer and Gay and Lesbian Hall of Fame inductee Pat McCombs.
A rousing spoken word performance was provided by celebrated poet and Windy City Times 30 under 30 honoree Nikki Patin.
For more information about Affinity, visit Affinity95.org.

Subject: Directors; Gays & lesbians; Social justice; Special events; Appointments & personnel changes

Business indexing term: Subject: Appointments & personnel changes

People: Rupert-Gordon, Imani

Company / organization: Name: Affinity Community Service; NAICS: 813319

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Affinity holds annual Burning Bowl, names new director

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 31

Issue: 16

Pages: 10

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2016

Publication date: Jan 13, 2016

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1761156125

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/affinity-holds-annual-burning-bowl-names-new/docview/1761156125/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jan 13, 2016

Last updated: 2023-06-23

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

ASK A FEMINIST

Author: Cohen, Cathy J; Jackson, Sarah J

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ask-feminist/docview/1757709284/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: CC: I'm still struggling to figure it out as well. To me it's the difference or the tension between a women's rights politics and a feminist politics, or an LGBT politics and a queer politics. What I'm looking for and have found, I hope, is a radical trans feminist politics that is thinking about and rooted in the transformation of institutions that would oppress and limit people's understanding and performance of gender.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=14&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2015-12-30&amp;atitle=ASK+A+FEMINIST&amp;au=Cohen%2C+Cathy+J%3BJackson%2C+Sarah+J&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=14&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2015-12-30&amp;atitle=ASK+A+FEMINIST&amp;au=Cohen%2C+Cathy+J%3BJackson%2C+Sarah+J&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Headnote A conversation with Cathy Cohen on Black Lives matter, feminism, and contemporary activism
introduction
I had the pleasure of having this conversation with Cathy Cohen, the David and Mary Winton Green Professor of Political Science and chair of political science at the University of Chicago, in late 2015.
Cohen's work, both academically and as an activist, has inspired my own, particularly in terms of making connections between black feminist theory, social movements, and issues of race and racism in the United States. Cohen is the principal investigator of two major social change projects: The Black Youth Project and the Mobilization, Change and Political and Civic Engagement Project. Her books, Democracy Remixed: Black Youth and the Future of American Politics and The Boundaries of Blackness: AIDS and the Breakdown of Black Politics have offered important interventions in scholarship on race and politics. She is also the coeditor, with Kathleen Jones and Joan Tronto, of Women Transforming Politics: An Alternative Reader.
Since the publication of my book, Black Celebrity, Racial Politics, and the Press: Framing Dissent, I have been particularly compelled by the use of technology by racial justice activists like the women who started #BlackLivesMatter.
My recent collaborative work with Brooke Foucault Welles, "Hijacking #myNYPD: Social Media Dissent and Networked Counterpublics" and "#Ferguson is Everywhere: Initiators in Emerging Counterpublic Networks" (in press), has illustrated that everyday citizens-particularly young women and people of color-are having a very real impact on national narratives of equality and citizenship.
In the following conversation, Cohen and I discuss the potentials for feminist theory in racial justice movements, the unique ways in which race and gender intersect in state violence, challenges for feminist academics of color engaged in activism, and the shape of the #BlackLivesMatter movement. You can follow us on Twitter at @cathyjcohen and @sjjphd respectively.
-Sarah J. Jackson
Sarah Jackson (SJ): I'd like to begin by asking what role you see feminism, and feminist scholarship in particular, playing in today's racial justice movements, as well as what you think scholars can learn from activists and vice versa.
Cathy Cohen (CC): That's a really big and important question. At its most basic level I think that feminism at the very least-and maybe most importantly-makes us stop and ask about the role that women, and here I mean both cis and trans women, are playing at this particular time in the multiple movements that are emerging, and particularly, at least for the work that I'm doing and thinking about, in what people are calling the "black lives movement."
But I think that feminism does a number of different things, in relation to racial justice movements today. I am especially thinking about the role of black feminism. I'll give you three things that I think it does: first, it makes us think differently about or, hopefully, expand where we look for victims of and resisters to state violence. It says that while there's a traditional or normative model of who we think about as the victim of state violence, which is often a heterosexual man in a confrontation with police, we know that state oppression manifests not only in that model but in lots of different places. It happens through the denial of state welfare assistance, and it happens in the ways we militarize the public schools that primarily black, Latino, and poor kids attend. These are different forms of state violence. And I think feminism fundamentally makes us ask the question, when we confront the traditional model, what are the other examples of state violence or state oppression that we need to be paying attention to?
Of course, feminism has us intervene in traditional sites of state violence by asking the very basic question about the status of women. So if we're looking at campaigns that are mobilizing against direct police violence and only mention men as targets, feminism would have us ask, where are the women? The Say Her Name campaign, the work that the BYP100 is doing in Chicago around the Rekia Boyd case, and, some would argue, even the Sandra Bland case are examples of attention to direct police violence where we can say, "Well, wait a minute, this is also happening to women."
SJ: And there was just the Charnesia Corley case in Texas, where the police did a vaginal search during her traffic stop.
CC: Yes, and we can go down the list of incidents that people will recognize as police violence. But again I think what feminism says is that we have to expand how we understand state oppression and more specifically state violence. We have to not only be attentive to what are now recognizable forms of state violence but also move beyond the "traditional" models of state violence to mobilize for justice for broader communities of people.
Second, I think feminism is informing the movement for black lives in terms of how it's structured and its leadership. There's some important feminist work that tells us that there are different forms of leadership that we should be paying attention to. Whether it is Belinda Robnett's work on the civil rights movement and bridge leaders or the exceptional work that Barbara [Ransby] has done thinking about Ella Baker and more democratic forms of radical leadership, I think many of the young leaders in the Black Lives Matter movement recognize that the male charismatic leader, or the singular charismatic leader, is not the form of leadership that they adhere to or they going to put forth.
In fact, many of these new organizations are led by young black women who identify as queer and who promote the idea, as Barbara Ransby has noted, that far from this movement being led by one person or having no leaders, it is a leaderful movement with cis and trans women taking positions of power. So the organizations that are part of a network of groups working under the broad framework of the Black Lives Matter movement look different and structure their leadership differently than organizations significant to the civil rights movement in part because of feminist teaching, feminist scholarship, especially black feminist teaching and scholarship and the fact that many of these young activists have been in the classroom learning about these alternative forms of organizing and leadership.
Third, I think that feminism should also require us to think broadly and radically about what we are fighting for-the outcomes we seek to the oppression that we face. Radical black feminists, in particular, have argued that while immediate policy changes can be part of what we fight for, the structural transformation of the lived condition of marginal communities has to guide our struggle. For example, if you take the work of someone like Beth Richie, who is an exceptional black feminist scholar focused on issues of incarceration and violence against women, she has written that when most think about violence against women, the traditional response in the mainstream domestic violence movement has been to involve the state, specifically passing laws against domestic violence and involving the police. But this response doesn't take into account the fact that the state is the oppressor in many communities of color and poor communities.
So involving the state or turning to police intervention cannot be the place we land when building a movement to address the structural conditions that foster or contribute to violence against women. Similarly, feminist organizations like INCITE! and the BYP100 have argued that working against the prison industrial complex must be focused on improving and transforming the conditions under which incarcerated folk exist, but we must also question the existence of prisons and seriously contemplate a broader structural approach that promotes a prison abolition agenda. The point is that feminism should turn our attention to structure, not just as a limiting factor but also as a jumping off point as we imagine a broader liberation agenda.
SJ: Yes, absolutely. I think all of those points needed to be made. And something that you just said made me think about how, as a black woman scholar, I have been very interested to see how the contemporary movement is redefining what questions are being asked, who's in leadership, etc. It's also been interesting to see what role academics think they should or shouldn't play in the movement versus what role activists think academics should and shouldn't play. These expectations sometimes seem to butt heads, but there is also a space for academics who are activists, and many of us-particularly those of us who are women of color-are already deeply engaged in the activism we're studying.
The academy as The Academy is, like any other American institution, often an oppressive force and contradictory in nature to antiracist and feminist activism, but those of us within the academy who as individuals subscribe to antiracist and feminist politics can have authentic ties to activism. So I wonder if you could say a little bit about what possibilities and roles you see for academics in relation to these movements.
CC: This is a hard one. I can think of at least four or five examples of organizations that have either been started by academics or are deeply in conversation with academics that are helping to fuel the Black Lives Matter movement. For instance I could talk about the BYP100, which grew out of The Black Youth Project, which I head. We held a convening of one hundred young black activists on the same weekend in which the George Zimmerman verdict was announced. Out of disgust with the verdict and as a result of the skills that these organizers and activists have, they created this new organization called the BYP100, which has really taken off and is doing incredible work. And I've been honored to be in conversation with the leadership of that organization. We are getting ready to do a special issue with the journal Souls that will focus on black youth activism and will include both academics and activists. This is one model of an activist academic supporting the work of activists rooted outside the academy.
You could also look at Salamishah Tillet's work with A Long Walk Home; you could look at Barbara Ransby's work with the Social Justice Initiative and Ella's Daughters; you could look at academics like Angela Davis or Beth Richie, who are both involved in INCITE!, or Kimberlé Crenshaw's work with the African American Policy Forum and the Say Her Name campaign. We can go down a very long list of feminist academics doing work with the Black Lives Matter movement organizations or doing their own political work-and I apologize to people I didn't include. I would argue that the black feminists I just named and many more have been engaged in activism as much as they've been engaged in the academy. Particularly for women of color, there is an understanding that you may never be fully embraced in the academy, and what this understanding does is it gives you a kind of freedom to pursue the work that will transform institutions of oppression, including the academy. So I think women of color have always endured a kind of love-hate relationship with the academy, with our positioning allowing us to be insiders-outsiders.
At our best moments this insider-outsider status has allowed us to be deeply engaged and accountable to communities outside the academy: the communities from which we come, the communities that we call home, and the communities that many of us study and promote. So it's not surprising, I would argue, in particular for women of color and feminists of color, that this idea of bridging what we do inside the academy and outside the academy is almost second nature-that's what we've always done. And for most of our careers this duel status has been the thing that people have often used to dismiss our work.
Now, with the emergence of liberation movements in communities of color, people who are not politically engaged in the same way are excited by it. But, sadly, I believe this too will pass and there will be another generation of young people, young scholars, young feminists, doing political work in and outside the academy who will again be discredited for doing such work but who will understand that their calling is not only about getting tenure but also leveraging the privilege and resources that can come with a life in the academy to resist and transform oppressive institutions that too often includes the academy.
SJ: Thank you so much. Honestly that was a very self-indulgent question because this is something that I think a lot about, personally.
CC: Can I say one more thing? Something else that interests me about this moment and the intersection of the academy and organizing outside the academy-and I've said this in other venues-is that we're seeing the emergence of a leadership that has often been in our classrooms. Many of the young leaders that I've interacted with have been in African American studies classes, have been in ethnic studies classes, have been in feminist, gender, and women's studies classes-these might even be their majors. So our entry into the academy may not have transformed that institution, but it has informed the thinking of a generation of young people who are now leading these movements, and I think it's being manifested in decisions about how they structure their organizations, or what leadership looks like to them and who they understand to be members of their communities-for example, they are conceiving of the black community in ways that are perhaps much more expansive than what we've seen before. I think that's another way in which the academy and activism are productively intersecting.
SJ: That's so true. Speaking of the leadership, we know that the hashtag #BlackLivesMatter was created by queer black women, which probably can't be said enough, and in some media outlets there's been a lot of buzz and there have been several major newspapers or online magazines that have written pieces about the new civil rights movement and the new face of racial justice activism. They have suggested that the inclusion of queer folks and women, or queer women, is maybe a new thing. But we know that these folks have been central to activist movements all along-we know who threw the first rock at Stonewall-and we know that this is part of the story that has actually been erased. This may be something that we both know the answer to, but do you think that the inclusivity of this moment is new? You have suggested just now that in some ways it may be, but perhaps in some ways it isn't. So I'd like you to talk a little bit about that, and also discuss how intersectional politics in particular might be evidenced in today's movement and how this is similar to or different from a previous moment.
CC: You've got a lot packed into these questions! On the question of whether it's new: not completely, but partly. There have always been radical black women or radical women engaged in mobilization, organizing, and leadership: we know that is not new. We can read the books on Fannie Lou Hamer; we can read the books on Ella Baker; we can read books by Elaine Brown (although I'm not sure if you can call her a radical, but ...); we can read Anna Julia Cooper. We can go through that individualized history to say that women have been a part of the leadership; they've been a part of the strategizing. And I would argue that trans women have also had a long history of organizing and resistance that far too often is not held up, ranging from the Compton's Cafeteria Riot, to Stonewall, to the mobilization around CeCe McDonald and beyond. So we know that the women, women of color and queer folk have always been central to our struggles. That part is not new. I think it's new information for some people, but if you think about the history and know the history, it's not new.
I do think what's new is the ways in which, at this moment in the Black Lives Matter movement, young, black, often queer women are not just doing the work but are part of a collective leadership. The fact that they are visible and vocal, not just in one organization but across a number of organizations, shaping the direction of this movement-this is something that's new. And they are leading not specifically women's organizations but also what many of us recognize as black liberation organizations. While the inclusion and in some cases leadership of women, queer and LGBT folks in our movements is not new, these individuals like Bayard Rustin, haven't always had the opportunity to be a visible or foregrounded part of the black struggle, so in that sense I think that it's new.
Another thing that's new at this moment is the recognition and articulation of a kind of black queer nationalist politics, that's informing the politics of many organizations involved in the black lives movement. I should say that when I say "black lives movement," I'm talking about the multiple organizations that are engaged in the national or international mobilization that is commonly known as Black Lives Matter, not just the one organization of the same name. To assert the significance of queer bodies as part of the black community is new and important. That is a struggle that has existed for some time and really took root when black activists were responding to HIV and AIDS in black communities, where we were trying to say that there were lesbian and gay and bisexual and trans folks who were part of our communities and their issues, in this case their struggle against HIV/AIDS had to be addressed by both national organizations and the state but also indigenous black organizations.
But now activists are saying that not only are gay, lesbian, trans, and queer folk part of our communities, but they are part of the leadership and they-for example, cis and trans women-have to be at the center of how we think about black liberation. The centering of cis and trans women and lesbian and gay men as members and leaders of our communities, that to me is significant and new. It is an expansion of our understanding of black communities that I don't think we've seen articulated in the past. The way in which people are also pushing back by using a queer lens to challenge the static nature of categories and identities is also important. This perspective is not always articulated or productively struggled with, but I do think there's the possibility for these organizations to borrow from a queer lens, we might say, and to think about the ways in which different bodies are marginalized and made to be queer in the eyes of the state as well as in their own communities.
This idea of queering marginalized bodies, in particular those of color was an argument I tried to articulate in my article "Punks, Bulldaggers, and Welfare Queens." This lens allows for and promotes different types of allegiances, not only racialized allegiances but also allegiances based on the positionality of people relative to the state, which queers us all or produces a bond of unity needed for the type of mobilization that we're beginning to see. For me, that is what's new and significant about the forms of leadership and organizational structures that we're seeing in this moment.
The other new development we could talk about is the constant articulation of the intersectional nature of both the oppression that people feel and the type of liberation and resistance that they want to mount; even though the framework for the moment is appropriately focused on police violence, people also understand the ways in which race and class and gender intersect. If we look at a campaign like Fight for $15, which is about securing a living wage-often for women of color, who find themselves doing more work for less money- that's a kind of intersectional approach to understanding the significance and uniqueness of the positionality of black women while also saying that their positionality can speak to the condition of black people more generally. I don't think we have often seen movements say that the common thread of blackness is not just the male body, or the presumed cis male body, but in fact that cis and trans black women can represent the intersectional positionality and oppression that black communities face.
And finally, I think we're in a technological context that allows people who have traditionally been silenced or made invisible to have a voice or at least to have their voices and issues amplified. When we think about how the Black Lives Matter movement started with a hashtag, I wouldn't want to discount the significance of technology as an important tool for organizing today. I would not say that technology is a driving force, but it has been a critical tool in terms of democratizing the voices who can be a part of this movement.
SJ: That's actually a really good bridge to my next question. You already mentioned Sandra Bland, and it seems to me that the Bland case was the first time in recent memory that the mainstream media, not just the black media or the alternative media, actually covered an instance of state violence against a black woman as a major news story. It seemed to be a tipping point, in that this case was pushed into visibility by the current moment, and it suddenly became possible to realize, "Oh, it's not just black men!" Now of course Bland in particular was a middle-class cis black woman, so in many ways she was also an "easier" victim in terms of the media's framework, but I wonder if you could talk a little bit about the fact that we know that there are countless incidences of violence against trans women of color, against immigrant women of color, against cis black women, that we don't see. Could you talk about whether you think we're at a tipping point in the visibility of these other types of stories? Or what other work might need to be done to fully integrate those conversations?
CC: That's a great question. I don't think I have a great answer. This feels confusing to me in the sense that, even given all the things you said, there are reasons why we might expect that the Bland case would resonate. One has to do with what we were talking about before: I think we now have a generation of new leaders, especially among the Black Lives Matter network, who are going to say that in fact the deaths of black women matter and who are going to try to hold up names and the experiences of cis and trans black women, trying to make other organizations and even the mainstream media pay attention to their lives. Today we have that kind of pushing and the organizational capacity to try to make that case. Of course, I think the role of digital media is also important here. There's a way in which using the tools of new media, activists can circumvent what might be thought to be the mainstream or dominant press and try to build the story themselves, using platforms such as their organization's website, Twitter, YouTube, and Facebook.
I think Bland's case also resonated nationally because it seemed so extreme. While the country may be prepared to accept the killing of black men and marginalized black women at the hands of the state, the idea that someone like Sandra Bland would end up dead in police custody seemed extreme and unthinkable to many in this country. Bland, while a black woman, was also a middle-class, college-educated, light-skinned black woman who was engaged in an act that was not deemed violent. In fact she was doing something that everyone has done, which is changing lanes without signaling. So everybody can say, "Damn, I've done that."
So I think it was the perceived extreme nature of the case, the insignificance of the infraction (and I don't even know if changing lanes qualifies as an "infraction"), the way the officer's outrageous behavior escalates, the fact that Bland was in town to accept a job, thus fulfilling the American norm of self-dependence, the ability to see so much of the interaction unfold on video, and the capacity of organizations to push and to organize around the story with a leadership that understood how important it was to bring attention to the police violence black women face, all of this results in the Sandra Bland death becoming a national story. I think it's one of those moments where many factors came together.
But I'm not sure I'm prepared to say that the Bland case, as important as it was, marks a tipping point. When I see the same type of mobilization nationally around the Rekia Boyd case or the Marlene Pinnock case or the Dajerria Becton case, that we have rightfully seen around the cases of Trayvon Martin, Michael Brown, and Eric Garner, then I'll say we've reached a tipping point. I'm not sure if it was this confluence of characteristics that allowed people to pay attention to the Bland case specifically or if it's a longer trend, but I think the pieces are at least in place to help put forward more and more cases of women, trans and cis, who are the targets of state abuse, often police abuse. I just hope people will pay attention.
Lastly, I also think there has been a form of training that has gone on over the past year. We've trained people to pay attention to cases of police abuse, which has helped with people's recognition of the Bland case. Sadly, now that people have seen so many cases of black people being killed by the police, it is a familiar story that is recognizable and people are able to say, "Oh, that happened again, and this time it was to a woman." They are able to process the Bland case because far too many cases prior to the Bland death trained the public to pay attention. I don't know if this training process helps your point about having reached a tipping point, but at least people are more likely to believe, listen to, and pay attention to these types of stories.
SJ: Thank you for that. Were you at the Movement for Black Lives Convening in Cleveland?
CC: I was not, but I heard many reports about it.
SJ: Yes, so did I. At this convening, there was a moment in the middle of the meeting when a deliberate effort was made to reaffirm the value of the inclusion of black trans lives. I wonder if you could speak a bit about the sig- nificance of trans inclusivity in both contemporary black activist and other activist spaces, as well as in scholarly spaces and in the work that we're doing in feminist scholarship.
CC: I think that it's important for any movement concerned with the liberation in particular of black people to be thinking about those individuals who are most marginalized nationally and in our own communities. And those are often poor people, trans and cis women, as well as LGB folks. So while we have made some progress in having activists and scholars detail the role that racism, sexism, and class play in structuring and truncating the lives of all black people, we still have much work to do to explain and challenge how heterosexism and heteronormativity work to limit the lives of black people. Similarly, I think there's still a lot of work to be done in support of trans members of our community, acknowledging their struggles, vulnerability and growing resistance.
It's important for those of us who profess to be concerned with the liberation of black people, who say we love black people, to include and make central to our work those most marginal in our communities because improving their lives should help move us all down the road toward liberation. In this case it means modeling trans inclusivity, making visible and central the struggles of trans folks in our analysis and movements.
The hesitation to making trans struggles central to our work, at least among many black feminists of my generation, those who came to feminism when second-wave feminism was dominant (if we even want to adhere to that wave structure), is that some of the most visible or prominent trans spokespeople seem to affirm a strict, conservative, and essentialist gender binary. I think people often confuse the more public and visible articulations of some trans celebrities with a universal trans politics. I believe that we have to pay attention to the nuances in trans politics. Just as LGBT politics is different from queer politics and women's politics is different from feminist politics, we have to acknowledge that an essentialist trans politics is very different from a radical feminist trans politics.
Thus, concern emerges when one hears the language of what seems like a call to biological essentialism-such as when Caitlyn Jenner says "I am a woman. ... My brain is much more female than it is male." I think that essentialist propaganda drives me and my feminist friends crazy. But when we hear the informed and radical stories of trans folks who refuse to live on the binary or someone like Janet who, while choosing a more traditional gender performance, talks incisively about the ways being a trans woman is related to the positionality of cis black women, who also are at the bottom of the racial order and gender hierarchy, the connection between the lives and struggles of black cis and trans women are made clear, highlighting the larger structures that we're both fighting against.
A radical trans analysis makes clear that our struggle is not so that everyone can find their essentialist selves, but instead this movement is about breaking down systems of oppression based on gender and class and race and sexuality, that limit the ability of people to have full and happy lives-from having good jobs, to having the kind of intimate partners that they want, to experiencing joy, to having agency, to having control over their bodies and sexuality.
Getting us to that point probably means more dialogue, more struggle, as Bernice Johnson Reagon would say, more being uncomfortable around the coalition and intersection of work that we want to do. I sometimes worry that we've accepted a dialogue around trans politics that we haven't struggled with enough. I think there is a way that both in the academy and outside of the academy, we haven't figured out where the space is to really have this dialogue and come to an understanding around the kind of trans feminist politics that I think is radical and transformative and not primarily essentialist.
SJ: Would you say that that's the case both for feminists working within the academy and for activists outside of it?
CC: That's a great question. I think there is a way that, yes, both in the academy and outside of the academy, we haven't figured out where the space is to really have this dialogue and come to an understanding around the kind of trans feminist politics that I think is radical and transformative and not primarily essentialist. Because of trans-exclusionary radical feminists, I think it's been hard to find a space where people feel like they can actually have that dialogue and move to a more informed position. I'm not sure that we've done enough either in the academy or outside the academy, but we've probably done more in the academy, actually.
SJ: This is something that I'm also still thinking about. And I have been talking a lot about this recently because Suzanna Walters's book basically makes the same argument about the LGB folks who say, "I was born this way; it's in my genes," and how this is actually counter to a radical feminist liberatory theory that would say, "actually we shouldn't justify treating people like human beings by any sort of genetic or biological criteria." So I like how you distinguished that narrative that has arisen around trans identity as being an essential thing as opposed to a radical trans identity that is rooted in a more feminist liberatory ideology. It seems like a really good way to think about it.
CC: I'm still struggling to figure it out as well. To me it's the difference or the tension between a women's rights politics and a feminist politics, or an LGBT politics and a queer politics. What I'm looking for and have found, I hope, is a radical trans feminist politics that is thinking about and rooted in the transformation of institutions that would oppress and limit people's understanding and performance of gender. I am, thus, interested in a politic that is rooted in and investigates life in contrast to binaries and static categories. That's the kind of feminist trans politics that I'm committed to, and that's the inclusion I want in the Black Lives Matter movement. People may not like this, but without an intentional politics, I don't see trans as inherently radical. I think there are many instances where marginal individuals are inserted into traditional institutions or movements and they do something to change the dynamics but they don't necessarily change these spaces and entities in a radical way that is open and more equitable. I'm interested in trans feminist politics in the same way that I'm committed to a black feminist politics that is tied to a transformative liberatory agenda.
SJ: That makes perfect sense. There also has been a lot of talk about this idea that there's a generational divide among racial justice activists. The media can't seem to get enough of comparing contemporary activists to civil rights movement activists, which is problematic in and of itself because the contextual differences are endless, as well as because everyone's public memory of the civil rights movement has been so sanitized. But there is this idea that there is a generational divide, and I think we have seen this divide in some spaces. For example, there was that moment in 2014 when Al Sharpton got shouted down. People were saying, "We didn't ask you to be here to talk about this." Maybe I'm wrong about this, but I think in some ways these generational differences-I don't like the word "conflict"-are analogous to the waves of thought in feminism, and maybe this current moment of activism looks more like the fourth wave of feminist thought. Or maybe it doesn't? I wonder if you have any thoughts about that.
CC: Here's the problem for me with the generational framework, and I guess we could say it mirrors my concerns about the wave framework that other people have already articulated: when you start comparing waves or generations, you homogenize those waves and generations. So I shudder when I hear you say Sharpton might speak for my generation. I'm like, "Oh my God, no! That's just scary!" I think that's what happens when we start to say that there are certain individuals that represent a generation.
One major problem with that approach is that the political/ideological tensions between individuals within the generation are made invisible. As I see it, if there is any divide, it's more an ideological one: it is the divide between those who understand themselves to be feminist and who insist that cis and trans women are just as important to our conversation and movement as cis men versus those that don't share this understanding. To me, that's the divide. It's a divide that's built around, as we talked about earlier, our larger vision of black liberation and who is a central part of black communities; it's a divide between the structure of more traditional civil rights organizations and the organizations mobilizing today; it's a divide between those who support new models of collective leadership in our protest organizations versus those who want one charismatic leader to point to. That, I think, is the divide, and this speaks to Sharpton also. He comes out of a tradition, an ideological positioning, that would lead him to seek the role of the male charismatic leader and believe that there should be one person and one organization leading the way.
I think the divide is less about generation, even though I think that's the easiest place for people to point, but I think if you dig a little deeper, beyond generation, you will see different political and ideological commitments driving the differences in the approach to social movements or in opinions about the Black Lives Matter movement. To me, this divide maps onto the issue of the waves model in feminist studies because, as you know, black feminists have contested the wave theory and questioned when waves start and end and who gets included. In the waves model you see the flattening of differences and dissension within waves as a way to bring into stark contrast those differences that exist between waves.
SJ: It's interesting because now that you say that, I think it does map: it seems like the divide within racial justice activism around what leaders look like and whose story should be included maps more onto the conflicts-both inside and outside of academia-between upperor middle-class white feminists and feminists of color and working-class feminists, who have always had this ideological head-butting, where feminists of color, for example, have been saying, "Your feminism isn't necessarily inclusive; you're helping prop up the carceral state, and so on." And that's interesting because it's less about generations and more about where one's standpoint is coming from in the first place. That's a really interesting way to look at it.
CC: But-to go back to the topic of trans inclusivity-I think another interesting aspect is that many of the trans women that we are talking about often come from poor backgrounds rather than middle-class backgrounds. They've been in completely vulnerable positions in terms of their lived experience. To me, that's a different positioning than a middle-class cis black feminist, so I think the question is, are we prepared to look at all of these differences in standpoint, as Patricia Hill Collins might talk about, and say that they're all significant? The divide that we saw, for example, in second-wave feminism, between black feminists or feminists of color, Latina feminists, Native feminists, and white feminists-that's an important one. But we know that we've complicated that account and that many people in the academy are in the academy because they have access to resources and some form of class mobility.
So while folks of color can challenge and open up new possibilities in terms of thinking about feminism, we also want to pay attention to the class positioning of those women of color who are speaking in the academy, often to the exclusion of poor women or trans women, who often have a very different positionality with regard to both feminism and their lived day-to-day experiences.
Ask a Feminist: A Conversation with Cathy Cohen on Black Lives Matter, Feminism, and Contemporary Activism" was originally published on the website of Signs: Journal of Women in Culture and Society (http://signsjournal.org/ask-a-feminist-cohen-jackson) as part of the Feminist Public intellectuals Project and will appear in the Summer 2016 issue of Signs. © 2015 University of Chicago Press. reprinted with permission.
Sidebar Ask a Feminist: A Conversation with Cathy Cohen on Black Lives Matter, Feminism, and Contemporary Activism" was originally published on the website of Signs: Journal of Women in Culture and Society (http://signsjournal.org/ask-a-feminist-cohen-jackson) as part of the Feminist Public Intellectuals Project and will appear in the Summer 2016 issue of Signs. © 2015 University of Chicago Press. Reprinted with permission.

Subject: Activism; Feminism; African Americans; Racial discrimination; Social justice; Women

People: Cohen, Cathy

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: ASK A FEMINIST

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 31

Issue: 14

Pages: 1,10-12

Number of pages: 4

Publication year: 2015

Publication date: Dec 30, 2015

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1757709284

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ask-feminist/docview/1757709284/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Dec 30, 2015

Last updated: 2023-06-23

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Chicago homeless, advocates confront Ald. Cappleman

Author: Hammond, Gretchen Rachel

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chicago-homeless-advocates-confront-ald-cappleman/docview/1738800275/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [Robert] claimed that he and others have tried to approach [Cappleman] about the issue numerous times. "We've gone to his office and he's never available," Robert said. "He doesn't want to claim responsibility. I'm not a criminal. I'm homeless. A lot of us just had a bad break. Cappleman wants to close the shelters down. Where are we supposed to go? If Cappleman had to spend a day out here living like we did, he'd know what it is like."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=8&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=4&amp;date=2015-11-18&amp;atitle=Chicago+homeless%2C+advocates+confront+Ald.+Cappleman&amp;au=Hammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=8&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=4&amp;date=2015-11-18&amp;atitle=Chicago+homeless%2C+advocates+confront+Ald.+Cappleman&amp;au=Hammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Almost 200 individuals experiencing homelessness and their advocates marched on 46th Ward Ald. JamesCappleman's Uptown home and, then, his office Nov. 9 to protest what organizers called "an apparent campaign to drive [homeless] people out of Uptown."
The temperatures were already hovering around freezing when people began to gather at the Cricket Hill Park on the corner of Wilson Avenue and Marine Drive-a place where the homeless of all ages try to find respite from the cold, often sleeping under the Lake Shore Drive viaduct.
"The police come unannounced at 2 am in the morning with garbage trucks and roust us and tell us whatever we can put on our backs and take with us is fine," Robert-who has stayed under said viaduct since 2010-told Windy City Times. "A lot of times, they throw the rest of our stuff in the trash. Not just clothes, but medication and personal documents. They just say they are doing their jobs and look down their noses at us."
Robert said he was evicted from his apartment after he could not pay the rent. He added that shelters like Cornerstone that were available to him were unsanitary, racist and dangerous.
"You just do it," he said. "You get enough clothes and blankets and you take one day at a time. You have people who are found dead out here. There was this one guy Jack who lived under the viaduct for a while. He walked down to the CVS and they found him in a stairwell."
Laura Schwartz has been homeless for three years. "Mr. Cappleman wants to make this neighborhood the next Gold Coast," she told Windy City Times. "They're throwing our property away. They're harassing us, threatening us. Waking us up in the middle of the night. What's going on is very wrong."
Like Robert, she agreed that the few shelters with single-occupancy room (SRO) services available make matters worse. "The staff does not know how to control the people living there," she said. "I've endured mental and physical abuse. I've been threatened. I've had steel chairs thrown at my feet."
Robert claimed that he and others have tried to approach Cappleman about the issue numerous times. "We've gone to his office and he's never available," Robert said. "He doesn't want to claim responsibility. I'm not a criminal. I'm homeless. A lot of us just had a bad break. Cappleman wants to close the shelters down. Where are we supposed to go? If Cappleman had to spend a day out here living like we did, he'd know what it is like."
Gay Liberation Network co-founder Andy Thayer was one of the co-organizers of the march along with Northside Action for Justice, Uptown People's Law Center, Uptown Uprising and Uptown Chicago Rocks.
"This is a long battle," Thayer told Windy City Times. "Cappleman has been purging low-income housing from this ward ever since he was elected to office. We have lost over a thousand units of private, low-income housing-more than the rest of the city combined."
Cappleman preempted the march with a press release from his office. "I share many of the concerns about the impact of the police sweeps on our homeless neighbors," he wrote. "Primarily, the sweeps are a short term tactic that do not address the underlying cause of widespread homelessness."
He said he is 'the number one advocate in the City Council to put funding forward toward the implementation of the City's 2.0 Plan to End Homelessness."
"Actions speak louder than words," Thayer said. "There has not been a single new unit of low income housing built in this ward since Cappleman became alderman. We don't believe whatever he says. If you give people decent housing first, then you can deal with all the other problems that come with homelessness. The worst thing you can do is precisely what Cappleman is doing-sweeping people out, illegally using the law, citing ordinances falsely to intimidate and scare people from under the viaducts and the parks. People need to hold Cappleman and the police accountable."
"As an attorney, I am appalled the City of Chicago has decided that the way it will address the homeless problem is not by providing homes but instead by sending out the police," Uptown Peoples Law Center Executive Director Alan Mills told the crowd. "Instead of providing them with housing, we are arresting them, we are giving them a criminal record. We are making it impossible for them to even get into housing if they have a criminal record. This is not the way you deal with social problems. When Cappleman ran the first time, he made a written pledge that he would sustain all exist- ing affordable housing in Uptown. He lied. We are short of housing except at the Cook County Jail."
Cappleman told Windy City Times after the protest that he must follow the city's affordable housing ordinance, and he can't block the sale of mark rate single-room occupancy properties to a private company.
Cappleman also told Windy City Times that he is not directing the police to do any of the sweeps, and that if a citizen calls the police, the police must respond to the complaints.
The marchers took their message from Cricket Hill up Wilson Avenue, followed by two Chicago Police Department (CPD) patrol cars.
At the corner of Hazel Street and Wilson, a member of the CPD attempted to move them to the sidewalk. The marchers refused and continued along the streets to the gates of Cappleman's apartment, chanting, "Hands off the homeless" and "Cappleman has a home, but what about homeless people?"
In his release, Cappleman stated that he would not be at his home but at his Broadway office, "meeting with constituents of my ward, as I always am on Monday evenings."
So the protestors took their message there.
They crowded into the warm surroundings, demanding that Cappleman emerge. When the alderman did, he was confronted by Esteban Burgoa, a veteran of the 2003 Iraq War now experiencing homelessness.
"I was homeless for two years," Burgoa told Cappleman. "No food, no heat. I learned to survive because of my training."
"Good for you," Cappleman replied.
"No-not good for me," Burgoa stated, becoming increasingly more frustrated. "I'm here because I swore to protect the constitution of the United States. When I hear about people harassing the most vulnerable, it's a shame."
"So what's your question?" Cappleman asked.
Burgoa wanted to know if Cappleman was prepared to take a pay cut in order to help provide housing for his Ward's homeless individuals.
"I pledge to work with other City Council members and the Department of Family Support Services," Capplemansaid.
"Just tell me yes or no!" Burgoa demanded.
"I give a substantial amount of my salary to a lot of different charities, including women who've experienced domestic violence," Cappleman replied. "I will continue doing that."
Thayer challenged Cappleman to call for the disciplining of police officers who are intimidating homeless people.
"Whenever there's any allegations of misconduct, all aldermen have to go through a process called the Independent Police Review Authority," Cappleman said. "If anyone has witnessed a police officer acting in an illegal manner, I encourage everyone to follow the process that is already in place. You must file a report."
The protestors were becoming increasingly angry and turned their backs on him crying "Hey Hey, Ho Ho/Cappleman has to go!"
Cappleman's aide called an immediate end to the meeting.
The protestors were ushered back out into the night, vowing that Cappleman had not heard the last from them.

Subject: Homeless people; Demonstrations & protests; City ordinances; Public officials; Housing needs; Affordable housing

Business indexing term: Subject: Affordable housing

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Cappleman, James

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Chicago homeless, advocates confront Ald. Cappleman

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 31

Issue: 8

Pages: 4,21

Number of pages: 2

Publication year: 2015

Publication date: Nov 18, 2015

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1738800275

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chicago-homeless-advocates-confront-ald-cappleman/docview/1738800275/se-2?accountid=14 696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Nov 18, 2015

Last updated: 2023-06-23

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Steinem, Gay talk with sold-out Chicago audience

Author: Hammond, Gretchen Rachel

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/steinem-gay-talk-with-sold-out-chicago-audience/docview/1734338750/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "What seems to be one thing in the distance is very different close-up," [Steinern] quoted. "I tell you this story because it's the kind of lesson that can only be learned on the road. And also because I've come to believe that, inside, each of us has a purple motorcycle. We only have to discover it and ride."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=6&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2015-11-04&amp;atitle=Steinem%2C+Gay+talk+with+sold-out+Chicago+audience&amp;au=Hammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=6&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2015-11-04&amp;atitle=Steinem%2C+Gay+talk+with+sold-out+Chicago+audience&amp;au=Hammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Two generations of feminism represented in celebrated activist Gloria Steinern alongside author and Purdue University professor Roxane Gay met on Oct. 29 before a capacity crowd at The People's Church on Chicago's North Side.
Andersonville-based bookstore Women and Children First hosted the conversation and book-signing of Steinem's new work, My Life on the Road, and Gay's Bad Feminist.
In setting a theme of continuity, Women and Children First founder and former owner Linda Bubon and current co-owner and former employee Sarah Hollenbeck introduced Steinern and Gay to a lengthy standing ovation.
"It is deeply satisfying to be standing here with two such renowned feminists," Bubon said. "And all of the beautiful feminists out there, young and old, who were with us despite many ups and downs and the terrible Bush years. Feminism is stronger now and more widespread than ever before. Our work is not done but we are here tonight to celebrate how far we've come and to honor the legacy of the woman who has stood for all of us."
"I've never met Roxane and I wanted to meet the future," Steinern said before reading the prelude of her book, which recalled a visit to the Sturgis, South Dakota, motorcycle rally and her preconceptions, which changed particularly when she encountered a grandmother who proudly owned a purple Harley.
"What seems to be one thing in the distance is very different close-up," Steinern quoted. "I tell you this story because it's the kind of lesson that can only be learned on the road. And also because I've come to believe that, inside, each of us has a purple motorcycle. We only have to discover it and ride."
In an essay from Bad Feminist, Gay challenged her own preconceptions. "At some point, I got it into my head that a feminist was a certain kind of woman. I bought into grossly inaccurate myths about who feminists aremilitant, perfect in their politics and person, man-hating, humorless," she read. "I bought into these myths even though, intellectually, I know better. I'm not proud of this. I don't want to buy into these myths anymore."
Steinern and Gay engaged in a lively conversation between themselves and the audience, which covered a range of topics including overcoming self-doubt, women's health and control of reproduction in a male-dominated society, changes in women's activism over the years and their opinions of the 2016 elections.
"We see movements as political silos," Steinern noted. "Movements are all connected and part of the national agenda. We talk about economic stimulus but the single biggest economic stimulus would be equal pay for women of all races. We have to get this out there. It would put $400 billion into the economy every year."
"The biggest predictor of violence is domestic violence," Steinern added while noting the history of domestic violence displayed by George Zimmerman prior to shooting Trayvon Martin in 2012. "It wasn't even admissible as evidence during his trial. If we understood this linkage, who knows, Trayvon Martin might be alive if Zimmerman had been taken out of commission."
Both Gay and Steinern enthusiastically supported Hillary Clinton's campaign bid.
"She's the best of our options," Gay said, "just looking at her experience alone. I thought she held up really well during the Benghazi hearings."
As far as Clinton's potential Republican opponents, after watching their performance during the Oct. 28 CNBC debate, Gay characterized them as "10 people who are failures in many different ways. Every single one of them, as a candidate, frightens me."
"As someone who comes from New York, I feel somewhat responsible for Donald Trump," Steinern added. "He's gone bankrupt four times and stuck everybody with his debt. It's unspeakable to me."
Steinern asserted that women needed to organize and take over the Republican Party: "We need to think big here. They are too dangerous."
For more information on Women and Children First, visit: http://www.womenandchildrenfirst.com.

Subject: Activists; Writers; Feminism; Public speaking; Domestic violence

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Steinem, Gloria; Gay, Roxane

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Steinem, Gay talk with sold-out Chicago audience

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 31

Issue: 6

Pages: 11

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2015

Publication date: Nov 4, 2015

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1734338750

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/steinem-gay-talk-with-sold-out-chicago-audience/docview/1734338750/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Nov 4, 2015

Last updated: 2023-06-23

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

New study aims to improve health care for LGBT people of color

Author: Baker-Jordan, Skylar

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-study-aims-improve-health-care-lgbt-people/docview/1732533066/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: In order to identify and recruit participants, [Marshall Chen] and his colleagues called in the Morten Group. Founded by Mary Morten, who formerly served as Mayor William M. Daley's liaison to the LGBT community, the Morten Group previously conducted the 2013 LGBT Needs Assessment, identifying the concerns of Chicagoland's LGBT population. "We learned through the needs assessment that healthcare was the number one issue," Morten said.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=5&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2015-10-28&amp;atitle=New+study+aims+to+improve+health+care+for+LGBT+people+of+color&amp;au=Baker-Jordan%2C+Skylar&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=5&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2015-10-28&amp;atitle=New+study+aims+to+improve+health+care+for+LGBT+people+of+color&amp;au=Baker-Jordan%2C+Skylar&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Headnote UChicogo and the Morten Group investigate how shared decisionmaking can make a difference
Going to the doctor is seldom a fun process. Patients are often and understandably nervous about what their medical professionals will have to say about their overall health. Beyond that, the power and prestige afforded to doctors can leave patients feeling unable to articulate their own concerns about prescribed treatment.
"When we sometimes have recommendations about plans of care, unless we're careful, we aren't necessarily tailoring them to peoples' experiences, preferences, and needs," said Dr. Monica Peek, an assistant professor and clinical-care physician at the University of Chicago (UChicago). This tailoring of treatment based on a doctor's advice and a patient's reality is known as shared decision-making, and is the focus of a new study focused on LGBT people of color.
"Your Voice! Your Health!" is a collaboration between the Morten Group and the University of Chicago investigating experiences of shared-decision making between healthcare practitioners and LGBT people of color in the Chicagoland region. "Too often, LGBT persons, in particular LGBT persons of color, have not received the type of shared decision making that is the best that can be done," said Dr. Marshall Chen, the project's principal investigator. "So the goal of this research project is to try to understand what LGBT persons of color want in communication with their healthcare providers."
Shared-decision making is important because it leads to the best possible outcomes for patients, according to Chen. "For patients to have the best possible health, they need to work close together with their healthcare provider," he said. "There's got to be trust, there's got to be open communication, there needs to be a sharing of decision-making where patients are actively involved." Too often, he added, LGBT people of color have not received this type of shared-decision making.
In order to identify and recruit participants, Chen and his colleagues called in the Morten Group. Founded by Mary Morten, who formerly served as Mayor William M. Daley's liaison to the LGBT community, the Morten Group previously conducted the 2013 LGBT Needs Assessment, identifying the concerns of Chicagoland's LGBT population. "We learned through the needs assessment that healthcare was the number one issue," Morten said. The Morten Group has already had four different launches throughout the city, which is important to reaching disparate communities. "I think we still deal with this idea that all the gay folks are on the North Side," she said, "which is of course not the case."
Finding a diverse pool of participants is the Morten Group's role, and also vital to the success of the study, according to Peek. "Vulnerable and margianalized populations tend to experience the same kind of discrimination in healthcare that they experience elsewhere in society," she said. "We are really hoping to make sure that everyone who wants to have their voice heard has the opportunity," even people "who may not be seeing a doctor right now because they're afraid to enter the healthcare system."
"We take this responsibility seriously that perhaps the most important part of the project is giving voice to people who too often have not been asked to tell their stories," Chen added.
Included in that group are trans people of color, who often "experience outright, significant discrimination," according to Dr. Scott Cook, a clinical psychologist serving as a coinvestigator on the study. "Sometimes it's not outright discrimination," he said, but rather clinicians "not knowing how to navigate the culture." This can make it hard for trans people trying to communicate their needs with healthcare providers, who may be "willing to do their best and want to try to do the right thing but maybe just don't know how and don't know how to have those conversations." In that way, Cook said, this study could benefit not just patients but medical professionals in better treating LGBT people of color.
Still, the research team understands that potential participants may be apprehensive approaching them. However, Morten said her group's participation can help alleviate some of those concerns. It is "helpful to have someone on the ground who people know, people trust," she said. "I think that overall helps in thinking about the cultural competency and sensitivities that I think are really important as we carry out this work." Morten points out that data collection on people of color has often been misrepresented and used against them, a fact she is "certainly very sensitive to, and I think the team has been sensitive to." She stresses that the answers are confidential and kept under "lock and key."
The study focuses on several areas-ranging from intimate partner violence to HIV/PrEP, obesity and diabetic screening-and will encompass both focus groups and individual interviews. Those wishing to participate should contact the Morten Group at 773-422-2591 or researchstudy@mortengroup.com.
"The more participation we receive from the community, the better prepared we will be to create communication tools that can best engage and empower that same community in healthcare settings," Morten said in a press release.

Subject: Health care; Gays & lesbians; Studies; Decision making

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: New study aims to improve health care for LGBT people of color

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 31

Issue: 5

Pages: 6

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2015

Publication date: Oct 28, 2015

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1732533066

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-study-aims-improve-health-care-lgbt-people/docview/1732533066/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 28, 2015

Last updated: 2023-06-23

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

letters

Author: Hunt, Kim L

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/letters/docview/1724986359/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Affinity's constituents and donors have been a supreme pleasure to work with over the years. There are foundations that have invested in Affinity early on and for multiple years-Alphawood, Astraea, Chicago Foundation for Women, Crossroads Fund, Woods Fund of Chicago. And to be notified that Affinity was one of the grantees in the very first funding round of the Chicago Community Trust's LGBT Fund was a beautiful moment.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=2&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2015-10-07&amp;atitle=letters&amp;au=Hunt%2C+Kim+L&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=31&amp;issue=2&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2015-10-07&amp;atitle=letters&amp;au=Hunt%2C+Kim+L&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Moving on
Dear Friends,
Today (Sept. 30) is my last day as executive director of Affinity Community Services. I don't have the words to convey how profoundly grateful I am for these past six and a half years of frantic learning, teaching in difficult moments, co-creating with leaders and constituents, walking through fire, celebrating community triumphs, enduring personal defeats, tears, laughter (lots!) and love. It has been a journey.
As I grow older, I realize that six and half years is just a blink in what I hope will be a long life. But so much has happened in that span of time. Some highlights are: graduating 12 scholars from the Youth Leadership Institute, training 43 peer advocates to discuss HIV prevention in their networks, supervising 10 interns who gained valuable nonprofit and organizing experience, hosting more than 30 cable access shows, organizing three major convenings-Beyond Marriage Equality, LGBTQ Homeless Youth Summit, At the Intersections: Race, Gender, and Sexual Orientation in Public Policy-putting together more than 20 community forums on health, intimate partner violence, financial security, immigration, community violence, best practices in serving youth, and other topics.
There were also editing or co-writing a half dozen issue papers, research reports and public statements; helping produce six Burning Bowl events; launching a group for older adults; appearing on too many panels, radio shows and public hearings to count; and working toward public policy victories like marriage equality and the extension of the African-American AIDS Response Act.
I have been blessed to work with all of Affinity's board presidents-Christina Smith, Lisa Maria Pickens, Kelly Suzanne Saulsberry and Ebonie Davis. They have been sounding boards, problem solvers, constructive critics, companions in the trenches, my sheroes and so much more. These women are evidence of the amazing changes that can happen in community when women lead.
I have also worked with some of the most inspiring organizers and organizations on the planet through the many coalitions that Affinity is an active member of and the partnerships for projects and new initiatives. There is no shortage of positive life-changing work taking place in this city.
Affinity's constituents and donors have been a supreme pleasure to work with over the years. There are foundations that have invested in Affinity early on and for multiple years-Alphawood, Astraea, Chicago Foundation for Women, Crossroads Fund, Woods Fund of Chicago. And to be notified that Affinity was one of the grantees in the very first funding round of the Chicago Community Trust's LGBT Fund was a beautiful moment. I am just as touched by the woman who has been donating $10 a month to Affinity for nearly 10 years. The love and support of our program leaders, other volunteers, loyal readers of The Weekly Download, Affinity stakeholders and those who donate their hardearned cash are the true testament to why Affinity has been around for 20 years, and is poised to stay relevant and impactful for years to come.
When I was hired, I told the board that five years might be my limit. I knew that as Affinity's first executive director I would work long hours and encounter many challenges. And I have to admit that I underestimated the many joys that have come with this labor of love. I have thought about my self-imposed five-year window many times over the last year and a half, especially when I reflected on the many things I wanted to get done before I left. But part of being a leader is knowing when your energy is waning and then stepping aside.
While we announced my departure to the community during Jazz n July, the board has actually been preparing for my transition since last year. So you need not worry about Affinity's ability to go on. Besides, it has always taken a village to keep Affinity going and that is as it should be.
I am excited about what is ahead for this organization that has been so much a part of my life for almost 10 years (including my time on the board). I am especially excited about the leadership of the current board and am sending them love and light as they begin the process of selecting a new executive director.
I am moving on to lead a new model for organizing in the LGBTQ community that will be launched the week of Oct. 7. I look forward to continuing to work with Affinity, other organizations and many friends in the ongoing battle for dignity, equity and liberation of marginalized people.
With gratitude,
Kim L. Hunt
Send columns or letters to Andrew@WindyCityMediaGroup.com. Letters may be edited for brevity or clarity.

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: letters

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 31

Issue: 2

Pages: 16

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2015

Publication date: Oct 7, 2015

Section: viewpoints

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Letter

ProQuest document ID: 1724986359

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/letters/docview/1724986359/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 7, 2015

Last updated: 2023-09-26

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Windy City Times at 30

Author: Baim, Tracy

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/windy-city-times-at-30/docview/1722046929/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: As for [Jeff McCourt], his last years were lonely and painful. [Mike Miner], in his Reader obituary May 7, 2007, wrote: "McCourt had one friend at the end, possibly the only one who knew about his death when it happened.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=52&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=14&amp;date=2015-09-23&amp;atitle=Windy+City+Times+at+30&amp;au=Baim%2C+Tracy&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=52&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=14&amp;date=2015-09-23&amp;atitle=Windy+City+Times+at+30&amp;au=Baim%2C+Tracy&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   The internecine battles of the gay community are legendary. They are not limited to Chicago, or to any one segment of the community. And the gay media have certainly not been immune to these growing pains of the fledgling modern gay-rights movement (more recently called the LGBTQ movement).
Chicago's gay media have strong and deep roots. In Chicago, Henry Gerber started what is believed to be the first U.S. gay publication in the 1920s. Friendship and Freedom lasted just two issues, thanks to harassment by the postal service and police, but Gerber's work did not go unnoticed. And his courage still inspires Chicago journalists.
In the 1950s, Chuck Renslow and Dorn Orejudos started the men's physique magazines Triumph, Mars and Rawhide Male. In the 1960s, the Mattachine Midwest Newsletter was a vital source for community news and information, including reports on police harassment, mainstream media bias-and the 1969 Stonewall protests in New York.
Soon more radical gay publications sprang up, including newsletters and tabloid newspapers. Most of the 1970s publications were allvolunteer, but by the end of the decade more business people got involved and tried to professionalize gay media with salaries and pay for freelance stories, photography and delivery drivers. The local newspapers Chicago Gay Crusader and GayLife even added newspaper distribution boxes on the streets in the 1970s.
By 1984, GayLife and Gay Chicago were the two primary gay publications that survived the 1970s publishing startup frenzy. Gay Chicago was a magazine, focused mainly on what was happening in the bar and entertainment world. GayLife was a serious newspaper with coverage of news locally, nationally and internationally, plus entertainment, sports and features.
But by 1985, GayLife was being criticized as part of the old guard, and its publisher, Chuck Renslow, was especially under fire. Renslow was politically active and an owner of multiple businesses-the newspaper, bars and a bathhouse (at a time when AIDS was just beginning to strike hard in Chicago). He led the local Democratic gay organization and had run to become a convention delegate for U.S. Senator Edward M. Kennedy's presidential campaign in 1980. People were concerned that he had unfair influence over the community through the newspaper. I started working for Renslow in June 1984 and never saw a misuse of power, but in our community, perception becomes reality.
Sales manager Bob Bearden and his partner, Jeff McCourt, a part-time writer for the paper (under the pseudonym Mimi O'Shea), were making a move to buy GayLife the summer of 1985. But instead they went behind Renslow's back and decided to start their own paper, Windy City Times. Bearden, McCourt and Drew Badanish, from the art department, all lobbied me intensely to come with them. They each put in $10,000 to start WCT. I had been the managing editor of GayLife and would keep that post at the new paper. But I was just 22 years old. I didn't have the negative experience to lead me to a decision to abandon ship. After some soul-searching, and trusting in Bearden, I made the difficult decision to be part of the new company.
We launched Windy City Times on Sept. 26, 1985. To say we started on a shoestring would be an understatement. While McCourt boasted of making a lot of money as a Chicago Board Options Exchange trader, the truth was that it was just bluster, at least by the time WCT started. And Renslow fought against Windy City Times for several months in the courts. I was forced to do a deposition and left the lawyer's office a wreck. Nothing ever came of the lawsuit, but it was a drain on emotion, time and resources.
We worked out of Jeff and Bob's apartment on Melrose Street just west of Lake Shore Drive, a third-floor walk-up. There were images of naked guys in the bathroom-blatant sexual images I had to get used to at GayLife and at many subsequent gay newspaper offices. We originally did typesetting at a downtown firm, Tangible Type, owned by Chris Cothran and Sarah Craig. (Craig died in 1994; Cothran, in 1996.)
After McCourt's passing in 2007, Chicago magazine published an article about his death and noted: "Looked at today, the first issue [of Windy City Times] seems inadvertently portentous. The front page has three stories, one on Mayor Harold Washington assembling a 15-person committee on gay and lesbian issues-a first for Chicago-and two on a subject that would dominate gay life and politics for the next decade: the AIDS epidemic."
It was a struggle psychologically and emotionally, not to mention physically and financially. While GayLife staggered and then folded within a few months after our start, leaving us with no direct competition, it was still not easy trying to do a gay newspaper in 1985. Bob got sick within a few weeks, eventually learning it was AIDS. He became a hermit, and my girlfriend at the time, a nurse's assistant, helped him.
Jeff put pressure on Bob because the paper needed his talents to sell ads. Bob just could not. He struggled out that Halloween, just four weeks after the paper launched, to take bar photos and work his accounts. But Bob could not deal with his diagnosis. His friends were dying, his partner was pressuring, and a newspaper was being run out of his home. We would be working late hours and hated to be in the way when Bob would shuffle out of his room to the kitchen-where we were pasting up the art boards.
In the spring of 1986 we moved to a separate office at 3225 N. Sheffield Ave., behind Gay Horizons (which now exists in another location as Center on Halsted), in the Rodde Center, the gay community center of that day. Our offices were next to the el train, so we paced our phone calls between those noisy neighbors. By the time Bob died in January 1987, the office dynamics had deteriorated.
Many people stepped up to help-freezing with the typesetting machines, writing articles and helping our reputation in the community. But I felt I was letting them down-Jeff and I were having power struggles. Jeff had no journalism background-he had only written gossip and entertainment prior to starting the paper-and I was very young.
Jeff had promised a hands-off approach to the news side, but he soon realized that was where his community power could come. He started writing editorials, including political ones. He and I came to a difficult decision in the 1987 aldermanic campaign when openly gay Dr. Ron Sable first challenged 44th Ward Aid. Bernie Hansen. Jeff wrote an editorial endorsing Hansen, and I did one for Sable. He started fuming about silly things like photo layouts, while people were not getting paid and didn't have insurance. I, for one, went a six-month stretch with no paycheck.
When an attacker came into the office with a bat one day, he asked for and went after Jeff directly, causing injury to one arm. No one else was hurt, but it was played by Jeff as a hate crime. (He testified in Springfield, Illinois, about the attack as part of a push for gay legislation). There were many ugly rumors, including some about drugs. The police calmed our staff down by hinting that it was not a general attack but probably drug-connected. The truth never came out, but it also made it difficult for all of us. When I left a few months later, one of Jeff's loyal allies even spread a rumor that I had hired a hit man to target Jeff!
With Bob gone, and with Drew Badanish bought out by Jeff, I had decided enough was enough. Not only was the office too stressful, but some of us now worried for our lives as well.
I started looking for investors to buy Jeff out. Jeff had indicated he was burned out and depressed, so it seemed like a good idea at the time. We made an offer through an attorney, but when Jeff found out I was behind the deal, he was furious. Sales Manager Jill Bürgin had to step between us for fear something might happen. I wanted to walk out right then, because I was ready to start a new paper, and most of the dozen or so full-time staff were coming with me. But several of the staffers, including reporter Bill Burks, convinced me the right thing to do was stay and put out two more editions of the weekly Windy City Times. I agreed, as long as Jeff stayed away from me. (We were on separate floors at this point.)
After those two weeks, we moved full force into starting Outlines, in the In These Times office building at 1300 W. Belmont Ave.
As Chicago magazine noted in September 2007: "McCourt also enjoyed a good fight. When Tracy Bairn left to found her own publication, Outlines, five months after Bob Bearden's death, she touched off what will probably go down in history as Chicago's last great newspaper war."
Even though I was the same gender as before, the fact that I was a woman with her name on "top" of the masthead made it easy for Jeff to really play the gender card. He successfully influenced advertisers away from Outlines, saying it was "just" a lesbian paper. He said I hated men, even though most of the people who left his employ to start Outlines were men. But just as with GayLife's demise, perception is reality. Outlines always struggled with the gender issue and advertising. If getting ads in a gay paper was hard in the 1980s and 1990s, getting ads in a paper stereotyped as lesbian was even harder. But our reader statistics always showed a balance of around 60 percent male and 40 percent female. A typical gay newspaper at the time was 90 percent male.
Windy City Times and Outlines went headto-head as weeklies for a few months, but by February 1988 I knew we could not keep up with the bills or get more investment money, so we went to a monthly newspaper format for the next nine years. The Reader declared Jeff the victor.
Jeff was really motivated. Albert Williams, who had worked at GayLife, was interim editor after I left. The paper was very active in pushing for the city gay-rights bill, taking a strong advocacy approach to the battle.
Jeff soon hired a young gun, Mark Schoofs, as editor, and he took the paper to another level. Mark (who won a Pulitzer Prize for AIDS reporting for The Village Voice after he left WCT) had a great team of both experienced and newer journalists putting out an awardwinning weekly newspaper. Subsequent managing editors kept that pace going. Several times, WCT won a Peter Lisagor Award, a prominent Chicago journalism honor. The competition helped both papers, but being a weekly with a stronger economic base had many advantages.
WCT became one of the top gay newspapers in the country. Jeff was especially brilliant at getting mainstream businesses to advertise, which is what helped his paper grow in size. He was very much about size, and proudest of his ever-growing Pride editions of WCT. But Jeff also alienated a lot of people and was just as erratic and drug-influenced as he had been when I worked for him. Eventually, those internal demons would catch up to him, but for more than a decade he thrived-on the competition, the journalism and the business.
Jeff also got very involved politically, and WCT endorsed candidates at almost every level of office. While I was criticized for working on sports (I was co-vice chair of the Gay Games when they came to Chicago) and business (I founded the Chicago Area Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce in 1995), Jeff had his hands in politics and entertainment. He tried to influence elections and lobbying efforts, he produced plays, and he was briefly president of a theater company. Jeff also was part of the National Gay Newspaper Guild to increase the clout of regional gay media. Those moves had their own conflicts of interest, but often publishers (of papers large and small) can't avoid all connections to the community.
Windy City Times also lobbied successfully along with 46th Ward Aid. Helen Shiller for increased AIDS funding under Mayor Richard M. Daley.
Jeff's Chicago Gay and Lesbian Hall of Fame biography states: "While maintaining Windy City Times as an independent voice, he embraced advocacy journalism and supported activism aimed at winning mainstream respect and political victories for Chicago's LGBT communities. During the 1986-88 stages of a long campaign to pass a Chicago human rights ordinance that would prohibit sexual-orientation discrimination, the newspaper's offices were known as 'Ordinance Central' because of McCourt's generosity in allowing activists to use space and equipment. The paper's editorials galvanized community and political support for the ordinance after initial defeats."
Mark Schoofs was quoted in Chicago magazine after Jeff died: "I wonder if Jeff was one of the last of the spectacularly self-destructive gay men. He was definitely a gay publishing visionary. The gay community was coming into its own in those years, and Jeff was one of the people who recognized that gays were part of mainstream America. He understood that gays were like Jews and blacks and Puerto Ricans and Irish people-another tile in the mosaic of America. He was incredibly flawed to the extent that he himself could not be part of that mainstream. But he was one of the people who made it happen."
Chicago also noted that WCT "benefited from the government deregulation of the telecommunications industry in the late 1980s, which, among other inadvertent side effects, spurred the development of the telephone sex industry-the ubiquitous 900 sex numbers of the era. The back pages of many lifestyle publications-including Windy City Times-were flooded with full-page come-hither ads for those services." Former WCT salesman Steve Alter told Chicago: "It was like money that dropped out of the sky. Suddenly what was a $300,000- or $400,000-a-year paper became an $800,000-a-year paper." With the money came a high-flying lifestyle.
Jeff's WCT featured award-winning columnists, including Jon-Henri Damski and Achy Obejas, who provided in-depth analysis of politics and the community. (Obejas shared in a Pulitzer Prize after leaving WCT.) ACT UP's Danny Sotomayor had been fired by Gay Chicago, and soon his controversial editorial cartoons were in WCT. But Jeff fired both Jon-Henri and Danny, and both immediately migrated to Outlines/Nightlines before they passed away (Danny in 1992 and Jon-Henri in 1997). Jeff suffered many similar losses of talented people; he attracted some of the best but, after a few years, most moved on. This was not a problem WCT alone faced; most gay media have a high turnover because journalists are now finally welcomed more into mainstream careers that can offer higher wages and often more respect-thanks in large part to the work of the National Lesbian and Gay Journalists Association.
"If McCourt had no problem attracting top talent, however, retaining it was another story," Chicago magazine's 2007 story noted. "Four years seems to have been the limit for most people. Some left for better jobs, but most simply were burned out from dealing with a person who-for all of his intelligence and drive-seemed at times completely oblivious of the impact of his actions on people." And the abuse of drugs only got worse. Steve Alter related Jeff's arrest for cocaine possession, which included a brief stint in Cook County Jail, in a post on the Reader website after Jeff died.
Louis Weisberg was editor of Windy City Times for five years until he was among those who left to start another competing paper in 1999. He told Chicago magazine: "We'd have editorial meetings where Jeff would be sitting there with white powder around his nose, drinking booze out of a bottle with Ryan Idol asleep on the couch. At some point we just knew this wasn't going to work-that this was no way to run a business." Jeff had a relationship with the porn star Ryan Idol that was complicated and at times disturbing to Jeff's friends and employees. (Idol's real name was Marc Anthony Donáis. In 2012 he was sentenced to 12 years in prison for attempted murder of his ex-girlfriend in 2009.)
Meanwhile, I was always trying something new to keep Outlines alive. I never did drugs or drank alcohol, but I was certainly a workaholic. We had started a weekly bar rag called Nightlines in 1990, which kept us covering news alongside bar photos. (It became Nightspots in the early 2000s, and folded into WCT in 2015). Rex Wockner was our full-time reporter for several years; he helped to keep Outlines and Nightlines on the journalism map-and he eventually became the most widely syndicated gay media reporter in the world. We had an amazing team of dedicated employees and freelancers, and we, too, won awards for our journalism and work in the community.
We also started BLACKlines and En La Vida, monthly newspapers for the African-American and Latino LGBT communities; both began in 1995, and they ran about 10 years each. Our website for Outlines started in 1996. (Jeff never owned the domain name WindyCityTimes. com, and later we had to fight in an international tribunal to get it back from one of Jeff's former employees.) We were trying to fill different media needs and niches, staying afloat with the generous support of community investors including Nan Schaffer and Scott McCausland. They were our angels in those early years, and Nan and so many others have remained supportive, even as we added Windy City Radio after buying the old LesBiGay Radio.
Windy City Times was a formidable opponent, and the staff kept it going despite both internal and external obstacles. This is why it was a truly unique set of circumstances that led Outlines, the much smaller company, to purchase Windy City Times in 2000-a Davidand-Goliath story.
Newspaper War, Part 2
By 1997, Outlines seemed strong enough to make the change back to a weekly newspaper, so we took the plunge, something which, in retrospect, probably strengthened us for the battles ahead.
In the summer of 1999, Jeff McCourt suffered another walkout, as reported earlier in this chapter, but this time the way it happened (with no notice) somehow hit him so hard that he rebounded all the way back to me-he called me for the first time in 13 years, and we commiserated about the way they left him. I sympathized with him, but never underestimated the road ahead. Jeff was not giving up yet.
The exodus had been planned for a long time. Before they started their Chicago Free Press, some of the new venture's investors even met with me at Outlines-I, of course, didn't know they were starting a paper, and that they had just been fishing for business information from me, claiming to be interested in buying ads. The WCT staff took their last paychecks and left right before finishing the second-most-important edition of the paper (coinciding with Northalsted Market Days). Some staff remained, but the company was in deep trouble.
Jeff was left far more vulnerable after this staff defection than when I left, for a few reasons. First, when I had started Outlines, I did not have the type of deep pockets supporting us as the new CFP had. I was able to get friends and community members to buy shares in my company, and they trusted me to run it. (Some people believe I am an heiress to a nonexistent Clarence Darrow fortune, which is not true; my mom was a distant relative to Darrow, and my parents were very middle-class. All I received from them in starting Outlines was a $1,000 check from my stepdad, Steve Pratt, and my mother's help in typing articles-plus their fantastic emotional and moral support, which I believe is priceless and the most valuable thing they could have given me.)
Second, our original goal had been to buy Windy City Times, so starting a new paper was not ideal in 1987. By 1999, when CFP started, the gay market was larger and more appealing to mainstream investors and advertisers, which helped CFP. Third, Jeff himself was not nearly as strong as he had been in 1987, so he had a difficult time battling the new opponent. Fourth, it couldn't have been easy for him to have suffered a second and more debilitating staff walkout.
Fifth, the employees left Jeff right in the middle of a deadline, which meant Jeff could not recover quickly; when we left for Outlines, we gave Jeff two weeks' notice and did put out two more painful issues. Sixth, the top people leaving WCT for CFP were mostly men, and I have to say that this was an advantage in the marketplace. When I left, it was also mostly male staff who came with me (because the staff was mostly male), which meant, of course, that it was mostly men who founded Outlines. But with me "on top" and a few other strong women in positions of authority, we were stereotyped from the start by Jeff. CFP did not have that strike against them. Seventh, I was only 24 when I left to start Outlines and did not have as much experience; most of those who left to start CFP were much older and had been around the business far longer.
And finally, while Jeff did continue to publish for another year, he spent huge financial and emotional capital fighting the former staff that had gone to CFP. Jeff never sued me or Outlines, so his energy and money were not diverted into such a fight earlier.
Dan Page, former production manager and art director of Windy City Times, wrote a scathing rebuke of those who walked out to form CFP, in a posting on the Reader's blog after Jeff died in 2007. Dan had worked during the buildup to the walkout and had been privy to some of the plans, but he was not among the defectors. "The timing of the mutiny was planned to CRIPPLE Jeff (in every sense)," Page wrote. "They had hoped to buy the publication at fire- sale prices, and, if not, to destroy it. ... Jeff was out of town the weekend of the mutiny because two staffers, a couple, who were among the Free Press founders, had encouraged him to go to his Michigan summer house. ..."
In fact, Jeff learned about the defection from a journalist: Mike Miner at the Reader called him to ask about the mass resignations. "The reason I found myself breaking the bad news to McCourt is that he wasn't supposed to know it yet," Miner wrote in the Reader of Aug. 5, 1999.
So, departing staff and freelancers started Chicago Free Press and battled McCourt's Windy City Times for a year-both in the courts and for advertisers. Outlines just chugged along for that year, trying to dodge the bullets and stay away from a circulation and advertising-rate war. But because Outlines had gone back to a weekly schedule, it really helped us compete. It also positioned us well for what happened next.
While WCT staffers-including Dan Page, Karen Hawkins, Neda Ulaby, Aaron Anderson, Mark Bazant, Tony Peregrin, Gary Barlow and others-worked hard to keep the paper going, the fight drained Jeff so that even when the court case ended, and even though he reportedly won, he had lost the final battle. He was forced to close the paper in August 2000 (the last issue was in July), and I called him immediately to buy it. He agreed, and after a few weeks of negotiations, Outlines' parent company, Lambda Publications, purchased just the name of the paper and changed the corporation name to Windy City Media Group. There were no other assets, not even any archives, just a lot of bad will among advertisers, some staff and parts of the community.
Jeff almost changed his mind about the sale-but his lawyers knew better (no one else expressed serious interest, and certainly not for the price we offered), and they walked him through the sale until the final signature was completed. I was able to get new investors, but the rest of the money came from putting my home on the line for a loan from the bank.
Many people said I was crazy, but I do believe had we not purchased the brand of Windy City Times, Outlines was going to be killed by the competition at Chicago Free Press, which had deep pockets and a laser focus on market dominance. As part of the purchase, we also eventually got WCT's seat on the National Gay Newspaper Guild, something that was highly coveted since only one paper per market was allowed membership.
Jeff and I met at my bank on the sale day in the fall of 2000. He and I sat outside of South Shore Bank, reminiscing about the old days. How hard it was-how it actually never got much easier. About people we had lost, about Bob, about their old three-story walkup apartment on Melrose. It was surreal, acting like old friends, when we had fought tooth-and-nail for 13 years. But sometimes that phrase "the enemy of my enemy is my friend" comes true-Jeff had been so wounded that he actually turned back to me as an ally. Jeff was chain-smoking and looked very frail. He had the shakes and looked far older than he should have. I honestly don't know how he survived another seven years after that day, dying in 2007 at age 51-one year younger than I am today.
The buyout of the Windy City Times name was important for Outlines, because it gave us a mainstream recognition to face the continual media wars in Chicago. Some in the community did not support us, because they viewed it as helping Jeff get out of debt. But I tried to see the value to the community, and to our business, and in the end it was the right decision.
We merged the two weeklies into one Windy City Times in September 2000, and I felt as if I had got my baby back after it had been in foster care.
As for Jeff, his last years were lonely and painful. Mike Miner, in his Reader obituary May 7, 2007, wrote: "McCourt had one friend at the end, possibly the only one who knew about his death when it happened. Gregory Munson says he was hired seven years ago by McCourt's sister, Diane, his legal guardian, to be his 'chaperone.' At the time Munson was working for an agency, Always Caring. 'He had gotten mugged when he was staying in the Talbot Hotel,' Munson told me. 'To my understanding, they found him in an alley unconscious and he went into Northwestern Hospital in a coma.' When McCourt was transferred to a nursing home, Munson went to work for him. 1 was originally with him five days a week,' he says. 'As time went by, it dwindled down to two hours once a month. [His sister] said he was broke. He disputed that but he was afraid to go to court to fight. He just hated that he couldn't have more control over his own life.'"
Jeff's brother, Dan McCourt, said that, at the end, Jeff had nothing left; and it's true that Jeff got very little from the sale of his paper. He had almost $400,000 in debts (the 1RS, his printer and his lawyers), so the sale cleared his name-but left him with little remaining.
Of course, the battles were not over. CFP continued to go after the new WCT, and a new rivalry was begun. CFP did change ownership in the mid-2000s, and eventually it was closed in May 2010. Meanwhile, Gay Chicago, which had been Chicago's oldest surviving gay publication, itself went through internal struggles and closed in September 2011.
The Next Generation
Once the two papers merged, Windy City Times continued covering LGBT news, politics, entertainment and more. Outlines had a strong team to move to WCT and retained some of the WCT staffers who had remained, in particular Karen Hawkins as news reporter, Marco Fernandez as sales representative, and Tony Peregrin, Jonathan Abarbanel, Mary Shen Barnidge and other well-known freelancers.
Politics continued to be a strong coverage area, with so many local, county, state and national elections happening almost every year. Outlines had had a policy of not endorsing candidates, so now the new Windy City Times also stayed away from such endorsements. Instead, the paper gave surveys to candidates in all races and rated them based on their responses. In the 2008 race for president, this proved important, because a 1996 Outlines survey for the state Senate, completed at that time by candidate Barack Obama, had shown he was fully supportive of same-sex marriage well before his later races for federal office.
AIDS also continued to be an important story for WCT and the community. In 2011, which marked the 30th anniversary of the epidemic's first diagnosed cases, WCT started a 13-month series on its impact. The series won a Peter Lisagor Award. It was also a finalist for a national Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation award, losing to The Boston Globe.
Other stories important during that time included the growth in the transgender-rights movement, the alarming increase in reported LGBT youth suicides, the fight to repeal the military's "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" gay ban, and the ongoing battle for the equal right to marriage.
But sometimes even simple business profiles can have a profound impact. A few years ago, when Chicago's Women & Children First bookstore was struggling, its owners allowed Windy City Times to tell their story in a front-page article. The store has been a key player in the Chicago LGBT community since 1979, and we knew our readers would want to know if it was at risk of closing. As soon as the article came out, thousands of dollars in donations poured in, and numerous other media picked up the story. The store is still in business, and was sold to new feminist owners. WCT has also done stories about family members and partners looking for donations to help cover funeral costs for loved ones, and the community steps up each time to help out.
Looking Back, Looking Forward
Jeff McCourt died of AIDS complications at age 51 in 2007. Soon after, I nominated him for the Chicago Gay and Lesbian Hall of Fame- he was inducted later that year. Few people are neutral on Jeff's legacy. Even those who left his employ have mixed feelings, about his mood swings, his drug use, his highs and his lows, his manic behavior and passionate loyalty-and his fierce competitiveness.
The bitterness caused by these wrenching gay newspaper schisms still has fallout today, but most of it is very much insider baseball, only relevant to a few folks who care about the why and how of the gay newspaper world.
Of course, if I were to do it over again, I would change many things. I am glad I helped start Windy City Times, but I would have gotten more of the deal in writing. Mostly, I would have tried to be a better boss. When I would go sometimes three or four days with no sleep, never going home, I had difficulty trying to run a business and be an editor and reporter all at the same time. Taking photos at a sports league in the morning, at a leather bar at midnight, going back to the office to write an editorial, and then trying to balance the books for payroll-that was just plain difficult. But in truth, I had much help in keeping it all afloat.
There have been many key players at Windy City Times and Outlines over the years. I hesitate to even start listing them all. And because I separated from WCT for 13 years, I did not work closely with many of the key middle-years employees. There were hundreds of people, including delivery drivers, photographers, salespeople, reporters, business staff, editors, interns, and the supportive investors and advisers.
Some of our longest-term full-time employees still with us today are Assistant Publisher Terri Klinsky, Director of New Media Jean Albright, Art Director Kirk Williamson, Managing Editor Andrew Davis, Senior Sales Rep Amy Matheny, all with us more than 14 years, and our website host Martie Marro of Love Your Website, our web expert for 20 years.
There have also been some important people present from the very first issue of WCT, still helping today in some fashion. They include Toni Armstrong Jr., Jorjet Harper and Yvonne Zipter. Many started in the late 1980s and lasted for years, including Rex Wockner, Jonathan Abarbanel and longtime writer Marie J. Kuda. And there were hundreds more, including those who continue to play important roles as we publish a daily online website and a weekly publication, Windy City Times weekly. Everyone on our masthead plays a key role.
There is one iconic picture from the early Windy City Times era that features some of the first players at WCT, some who soon left to start Outlines, and some who stayed on for many years with Jeff. Pictured in that photo, with Jeff and me, were Larry Shell, Ben Dreyer, Bill Burks, M.J. Murphy, Chris Stryker, Hugh Johnson, Steve Alter, Shani, Jorjet Harper, Larry Bommer, Yvonne Zipter, Albert Williams, Chris Cothran, Jill Bürgin, Jon-Henri Damski and Mel Wilson. It captures a brief moment in time, and brings back all the good and bad memories that were the glue holding WCT together in those formative 1980s.
We have also had to say goodbye to far too many young colleagues, most because of AIDS, some because of cancer and other tragedies: Jeff McCourt, Bob Bearden, Richard Cash, Bob Kraus, Mike Simanowicz, John Schmid, JonHenri Damski, Danny Sotomayor, Paul Adams, Joseph Beam, Tony Hassan, Marvin Patterson, Alfredo Gonzalez, Fernando Flores, Sarah Craig, GayBoy Ric, Chris Cothran, Kathleen O'Malley, John Pennycuff, William B. Kelley, our attorney Mary York, my mom and stepdad, and unfortunately the list goes on.
Next Up
There is a delicate tightrope we continue to walk, as a community-based paper that covers the good, the bad and the mixed of the LGBT movement. That means scandals at health clinics, drug arrests of leaders, domestic violence and financial mismanagement-at the same time promoting benefits and events, activists and organizations.
Windy City Times is also going through transitions similar to those of other gay and mainstream media companies. With more than 30,000 articles and 100,000-plus photos archived online, the website is a key growth area for the company. And, of course, we participate in social media, content sharing and other opportunities to build audience.
We were never intimidated by "giving it away" for free online, since our papers were always free. The dilemma is on the revenue side-who pays for all that free content. Our solution is not to charge for online contentvery few papers will survive on that model. Rather, we have to find other unique revenue streams, and that includes successful community-based events.
While online expansion is important, the primary strength of the company is still in its weekly print edition.
As part of an effort to streamline costs, the company went to a "virtual" office in 2008, just two months before the U.S. economy collapsed. This planned move made sense for a company that has most of its reporters and sales representatives in the field every day. It was an efficiency move that has actually strengthened the company to its best position in many years.
Given the closing of so many gay print publications over the past decade, Windy City Times (one of only 11 weekly LGBT newspapers left, and a member of the new National Gay Media Association) is fortunate to still be able to serve the Chicago-area LGBT community.
We benefited from an odd mix of luck, good timing, amazing support and wonderful staff. It was a unique blend, but it has worked very well. We thank the community for standing by us these 30 years, and we hope to "deliver" the news for a long time to come.
The 30th anniversary party for Windy City Times is open to the public. It will be Sunday, Sept. 27, 2-5 p.m. at Sidetrack, 3349 N. Halsted, $30 donation at the door. We will have music, a walk down memory lane, and some fun door prizes.
This essay was adapted from Gay Press, Gay Power: The Growth of LGBT Community Newspapers in America, edited by Tracy Baim, published in 2012 by Prairie Avenue Productions.

Subject: Anniversaries; Newspapers; Gays & lesbians; Media coverage; History; LGBTQ rights movements

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Windy City Times; NAICS: 513110

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Windy City Times at 30

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 52

Pages: 14-18

Number of pages: 5

Publication year: 2015

Publication date: Sep 23, 2015

Section: HISTORY

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1722046929

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/windy-city-times-at-30/docview/1722046929/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Sep 23, 2015

Last updated: 2023-09-26

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

19th transgender murder raises questions about reporting

Author: Hammond, Gretchen Rachel

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/19th-transgender-murder-raises-questions-about/docview/1720036973/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: In the 1970s and '80s, computers didn't have the power to search everything," he said. "We had to narrow the search down as much as we could and so we used sex, race or sometimes year-of-birth as a filter so that we weren't looking for a needle in the biggest haystack. Race was always something that could be subjective. How was it designated in the database? When you didn't know that, there was a chance that you would miss it in the search.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=51&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2015-09-16&amp;atitle=19th+transgender+murder+raises+questions+about+reporting&amp;au=Hammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=51&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2015-09-16&amp;atitle=19th+transgender+murder+raises+questions+about+reporting&amp;au=Hammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Even as people were gathering in at least 20 cities across the United States for the Aug. 25 Trans Liberation Tuesday event to stand-up for and acknowledge the then-18 transgender women murdered in 2015, news stories began to break about an Aurora, Illinois, woman named Keyshia Blige.
She had been shot while driving through Aurora's South Side and died at the scene.
Blige became the 19th victim.
But the incident had not occurred earlier in the day, over the prior weekend or even during the month of August.
Blige was killed in the early hours of March 7. A statement from the Aurora Police Department reached WGN news which reported the incident that afternoon. The Aurora Beacon News-part of the Chicago Tribune Media Group-followed with a more detailed article March 24.
The Aurora Police Department as well as WGN and The Beacon News referred to Blige as a male and used her birth name. The Beacon News noted in its report that Blige had recently begun transitioning.
It was five months later, on Aug. 23, when Elizabeth Marie Rivera-the creator of the Trans Social Butterfly Networkcorrected both the Aurora PD and The Beacon News in a Facebook post.
Outrage followed as it became clear that Blige had been revictimized due to the failure of both the Aurora PD and the media to correctly report her gender and her name.
Hers was not a case in isolation.
Blige, India Clarke, Ty Underwood, Penny Proud and Jasmine Collins represent just five of the women incorrectly identified by police investigators in 2015 and subsequently by both local and national press outlets.
Lisa Gilmore is a member of the governance committee of the National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs (NCAVP) and the principal and founder of the Illinois Accountability Initiative-a statewide project responding to LGBTQ experiences of violence and discrimination.
"There are two separate issues here," Gilmore told Windy City Times. "One is the information provided by a police department to media and the second is the media's investigation and how they develop standards on correctly identifying people."
According to Gilmore, the appalling consequences of these mistakes are far reaching. They transcend the damage wrought to the memory of the victim and the love accorded to her by those family and friends who chose to embrace her identity.
Transgender women of color are being systematically wiped out as a result of the rejection and dehumanization they face at all levels of society, married to what Black Lives Matter strategic partner and GetEQUAL Central Regional Coordinator Elle Hearns termed "respectability politics."
"It has a huge impact on our ability to track and get a clear picture of what's happening," Gilmore said. "Particularly when we are talking about a homicide. The victim-and most important witness-can't provide us with information, so we have to rely on the accounts that someone else provides, whether it is media or law enforcement. This isn't just about counting numbers. This is about preventing this kind of violence by changing the conditions in which it happens. We have to determine whether there were hate- or bias-motivated elements or if it was a case of domestic or intimate partner violence. We can't do prevention if we don't know the reality of the situations that are occurring."
Dr. Paul Schewe, the director of the University of Illinois (UIC) Interdisciplinary Center for Research on Violence, agreed. As a researcher he has worked with the Center on Halsted (COH), the Chicago Commission on Human Relations (CCHR) and the Cook County State's Attorney's office.
"It is entirely important that we have accurate numbers," he told Windy City Times. "Now that all sorts of research is trying to be more gender sensitive, it's a real struggle."
Windy City Times examined the issue from the standpoint of law enforcement and the advocacy groups who track and monitor media response in an attempt to determine a cause and possible solutions to misgendering and revictimization.
Crime scene 101
Brian Dorow has held the position of associate dean of criminal justice, homeland security and counter terrorism at Waukesha County Technical College in Wisconsin for 11 years. Prior to that, he spent a decade as a city of Waukesha police supervisor.
"When it comes to a homicide, the general rule of thumb is that you have 48 hours to do what you can to solve it," he explained. "Or your leads dry up and your witnesses may become uncooperative. There is high pressure in the first two days. For investigators, every crime scene has a story to tell. You have to start looking at the physical evidence there, what is not there and if there are witnesses. When you approach a body, you're going to make an initial observation-what is that person wearing or not wearing?
"Is there an obvious sign of trauma, a bullet wound, a stab wound? Where is the body? You have to document all this information. You look for identification-a driver's license or an identification card-or you look for identifiers. Does this person have tattoos? Is the person missing a finger? However, sometimes you don't have that information available. At that point, you have a specialist come and take fingerprints and hopefully the victim has a record of some kind where you can make an identification."
Bill Schade is one such specialist. He has been a forensics practitioner for 40 years. Schade told Windy City Times that fingerprints are the most common starting point for a search using biometrics-one not based on a name or demographic data.
"In the 1970s and '80s, computers didn't have the power to search everything," he said. "We had to narrow the search down as much as we could and so we used sex, race or sometimes year-of-birth as a filter so that we weren't looking for a needle in the biggest haystack. Race was always something that could be subjective. How was it designated in the database? When you didn't know that, there was a chance that you would miss it in the search. As the technology has progressed, we have eliminated artificial filters because they can cause problems. The systems are so powerful now that we can do searches against the entire database and let the biometrics filter out the results rather than by a subjective decision from the person who created the record. Having said that, if we're searching an individual's prints we are doing a broad-based search against those databases and the results that come back are going to be whatever was put on file. So if the record is in the name of 'John Smith' and the sex and race is 'male and white', that will be what we report back to an investigator as a lead."
According to Schewe, the Chicago Police Department (CPD) is cooperating with advocacy groups to change its record-keeping practices in regards to an individual's gender identity. His own work as a researcher determined a number of factors that must be considered. "In asking someone to describe their gender identity, we came up with as many as 20 different check boxes for people," Schewe noted. "When police are filling out their forms, they don't have very good categories for indicating a person's gender identity. There are some people in the trans community who say 'no, I'm not transgender male or female. I'm male. I'm female. That's always been my identity'."
"Quite honestly in the forensics field, everybody's a number," Schade said. "I have been asked for years 'what is the real name?' because the record comes back with an alias. But we categorize a person by a number that's assigned. You can have many names, but you can only have one biometric ID number."
For investigators, even the increased ability to engage in biometrics such as facial or iris recognition and hand geometry does not change the demographic information contained within the system such as the name and gender behind an individual's social security number or state identification.
"If we're not checking a fingerprint or a facial image to confirm identity, we're creating records in error," Schade said. "That's why law enforcement has always used biometric data as a foundation. We run the biometric and we will come back with maybe a driver's license photo and then you go to that record to see what information is on file. If Caitlyn Jenner hasn't changed her driver's license and she is the victim of a crime in California and we run her prints, who would it come back to? It has nothing to do with the forensic identification. It points to the correct record but it all depends on the information that's on file."
With a majority of transgender individuals living far below the poverty line, unable to get or maintain a job due to ongoing discrimination, the cost for them to change that information is well beyond their reach.
In Cook County, the filing fee alone for a name change is $337. The additional requirement that a name change must be published before a final judgement is provided can-in the case of the Chicago Daily Law Bulletinadd $150 to the bill.
Cook County offers a fee-waiver program, but navigating through a bureaucratic maze that involves multiple floors of the Daley Center in order to obtain the required forms without the help of an attorney is a daunting prospect.
Despite the efforts of advocacy groups such as the Transformative Justice Law Project of Illinois, which offers free, regular name-change mobilizations to assist individuals with the filing of forms, there are many transgender individuals whose gender markers and birth names remain unchanged in the system.
Even if an autopsy at a medical examiner's office notes the presence of synthetic hormones in a body, such information is not always immediately available.
"There certainly can be a delay in those reports," Dorow said. "It depends on what you are looking for and what is needed."
Yet the question remains as to why police departments are so quick to release a victim's incorrect gender identity as information to the media-"feeding the beast" as one police source who preferred not to be named termed it.
Blige had begun hormone replacement therapy before she was murdered. Had investigators from the Aurora PD waited for reports from the medical examiner before releasing information to WGN, the fact that she was transitioning could have been taken into account despite the information contained in her public records.
"It's usually case-by-case," Dorow said. "You've come across a body. You know the clock is ticking. There is pressure. When homicides hit the news, that's the front page and gets a lot of attention in communities that have a small number of homicides each year. But there's no protocol that says you have to release information at a certain time. It's based on the situation, the needs of the investigation and whether or not the investigators are looking for the general public to come forward. There could be not enough awareness in this area. It requires further training now and in the future."
Windy City Times asked the Aurora Police Department about their policy in releasing information to the media. Director of Public Information for the City of Aurora Dan Ferrelli released the following statement:
"While every homicide investigation presents unique challenges based on facts and evidence and are investigated as those elements dictate, one consistent rule is that the Aurora Police Department will only release the name and other identifying information on a homicide victim after the family of the victim is notified. The identification is generally based on documents such as ID cards and drivers licenses, visual observations made by personnel, medical records, statements made by family and friends, and other factors. When a homicide occurs, our number one focus is finding the person or people responsible for taking a human life, no matter what the gender of the victim may be, and holding the offender responsible. If during the course of the investigation, we discover that there are signs that lead to a hate crime or other extenuating circumstance, those factors are taken into consideration and aggressively addressed."
Ferrelli went on to note the Blige investigation as "a very good example of the challenges we face in these types of cases. From the time we began investigating this murder it was evident that the victim had the physical characteristics of a male, he was dressed as a male, his identification listed him as male, all of the interviews we conducted (including family members) referred to Ms. Blige in masculine terms ('him, he, etc.')."
In May 2014, the U.S. Department of Justice Community Relations Service (DOJCRS) began to offer transgender law enforcement training in partnership and collaboration with a number of police departments across the country and advocacy organizations such as the National Center for Transgender Equality and the National Gay and Lesbian Taskforce.
Grande H. Lum is the director of the DOJCRS. "Since we launched over a year ago, for example in the Chicago area, our regional office has held trainings in North, Central and Southern Illinois for over 1,000 law enforcement officers," he told Windy City Times. "The identification of gender is fundamental. When you provide training to law enforcement officers, especially ones who are going to an academy, that's where it can make a significant difference in understanding that the [gender] preference of an individual is critical. I don't think we want situations where a transgender victim is being misgendered and it's picked up by the media. I don't think that helps anyone."
The curriculum for basic recruit training at the Chicago Police Department comprises 1,000 hours (over twice the Illinois state mandate) and between 400 and 480 hours for the Cook County Sheriff's Department and other statewide academies. It is governed by the Illinois Law Enforcement Training & Standards Board. They have yet to include the DOJCRS's or any transgender sensitivity training.
Calls to the board were not returned.
"There certainly are some police departments who are reluctant or resistant to bringing in this training," Lum acknowledged. "Our services are strictly voluntary. We can do this work because the jurisdiction was opened up by the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2009. At the same time, there have been a lot of requests and we've heard very positive things from communities. They can see the benefit and the value of their officers going through [the program]. Law enforcement organizations that are effective are ones that understand their communities better."
"In the [Wisconsin] academy you get diversity and sensitivity training built into the curriculum," Dorow said. "I'm involved in the training of in excess of 10,000 police officers on an annual basis. The law enforcement profession is always evolving. At the end of the day, it comes down to training. Especially with a homicide, it's so crucial to know all of the facts. Proper identification is only going to help your investigation and the successful prosecution of a suspect."
Ferrelli said that the Aurora PD would "consider training offered by the Department of Justice in order to bring a sense of justice to all crime victims."
Along with the training already offered by the DOJCRS, Lum announced that the department will release a roll call video to coincide with this year's Transgender Day of Remembrance.
It has been created with the participation of transgender individuals and experienced police officers. "The video will have different scenarios where there's an interaction between a law enforcement officer and an individual who is transgender," Lum said. "We use a situation where there's been a traffic stop and one where a police officer comes to an apartment. It pro- vides some best practices and you can also see [what happens] when it doesn't go well. I think it's going to make a difference because the audience is going to be law enforcement officers."
The media
However, the video's audience will not be the general public who receive their transgender sensitivity training from the media outlets which report a crime against a transgender individual.
"The press is looking for information, they follow the police scanner and they want it as quickly as possible," Schade said. "Usually [the media] accuse us of withholding it. The last thing we want to do is release bad information."
"In Keyshia's case, The Beacon News could have taken a very different route," Gilmore said, "by not using her former name or a headline referring to her as male. But they took the route of gendering her as a man even though they were getting information from very close to her that she had started transitioning."
The media does have help.
Among the many resources that they have made freely available to the press, the nationwide advocacy group GLAAD has an extensive transgender Media Reference Guide as well as a Doubly Victimized repor-a step-by-step guide with examples of what and what not to do in everything from pronoun usage to the appropriate use of names when reporting but not exploiting the transgender status of an individual who has been the victim of a crime.
The National Lesbian and Gay Journalists Association has a similar report for media to use, and at their conference in San Francisco Sept. 3-5, several panels addressed the misgendering of transgender subjects, both alive and dead.
Dani Heffernan is the senior strategist for transgender media at GLAAD. "I think journalists who are covering these stories need to understand why victims who are transgender are misgendered," Heffernan said. "When they are receiving these reports from police, if they think that the victim might be transgender, they should be reaching out to family members, to local trans or LGBT organizations in the area to find out more. Journalists should be open to making changes to their stories when people in those communities contact them and say 1 know how a person identified'. They should be receptive to that."
Despite the resources available, looking back over the 19 known women murdered in 2015 shows that many of the media outlets are not open to correcting an initial misgendering.
The nonprofit monitoring organization Media Matters for America has called to account a number of press outlets for misgendering and misidentifying transgender victims. LGBT Program Director Carlos Maza believes there is no excuse.
"The media's insistence on blaming police reports or deferring responsibility to police departments isn't a widely accepted reflection of journalistic practices," he told Windy City Times. "This idea that a news outlet's only job is to repeat press releases without questioning their validity or doing their own investigative research contradicts the public's general understanding of what the role of the media is. The excuse that media outlets are exempt from responsibility is curious because, in any other area of reporting, if there is no fact checking or followup we understand that to be bad journalism."
GLAAD has often stepped in with a number of strategies designed to positively intervene and assist media outlets who misgender or misidentify a trans individual. The results are mixed.
"We've had situations come up with small and national papers when they become aware of the guidelines or the story that they wrote is inaccurate, that they are open and genuinely concerned about making those changes," Heffernan said. "There are also times when that doesn't happen and when one conversation with a journalist is not enough to have changes made to the story. Then we are talking to local organizations on the ground about next steps."
"Unfortunately, in some cases we're still dealing with transphobia," Maza said. "There are still journalists out there who don't take trans people, their stories or their identities seriously and it's going to be very hard-even with pressure-to encourage them to stop misgendering trans victims of violence. For a bigger subset of the journalistic population, the issue is fear and anxiety about being ahead of the herd or at the cutting edge of what really is a revolution within the industry and social acceptance of the LGBT community at large.
"The movement from treating trans people as jokes and punchlines to taking them seriously has occurred relatively rapidly in terms of the media landscape. Especially for smalltown reporters, the fear is 1 don't want to call someone trans when they're not. I don't want to be the one who's over-zealous.' There is a reluctance to chance old habits. The failure to correctly identify trans victims properly is in conflict with basic and widely accepted journalistic guidelines. It has gone beyond laziness. It has gone beyond ignorance. It is now an active form of bad journalism and the work that activists and advocates have to do is to remind journalists that this is not an acceptable practice and there is no credible defense."
When a media outlet is resistant to change, GLAAD's next steps are designed to bring attention to the problem and to apply public pressure.
"There was a national outlet that had misgendered a transgender woman of color who was brutally murdered and they were not initially open to making changes to the story," Heffernan recalled. "GLAAD worked with local advocates. There was a petition asking for the paper to make changes to the story. That led to an editorial board meeting where we talked to the outlet about their style guide. Eventually they did ensure that their coverage of transgender people will be respectful going forward."
Despite these successes, Heffernan acknowledged that there is still a great deal of work to do: "This year especially, I hope that most journalists are aware of the enormous levels of violence facing transgender people and transgender women of color in particular."
"The solution is really as simple as looking at context and clues, being patient and cautious," Maza said. "In a lot of cases where a news outlet misreports the gender of a victim of violence, there is at least enough evidence to raise concerns about whether the gender identification given by the police department should be taken at face value. We've seen that a lot this year, where news outlets noted in police reports that the victim was dressed in a way that was atypical for their gender or went by a name that wasn't their birth name, or was referred to by friends and loved ones and by themselves on social media using gender markers or names that weren't in alignment with police reports. Those kinds of clues should tip off even amateur journalists that maybe using the gender identification given by the police department isn't the safest bet and maybe there's more to the story. There really isn't a credible defense of doing bad reporting."
Windy City Times reached out to the Aurora Beacon News for comment on its March 24 article.
Editor Anne Halston replied with a statement.
"As you know, our story talked about Bryce Stiff's stage persona of Keyshia Blige," it read. "But we did not know that was an identity or name used off the stage. We relied on information presented to us at the time through public documents and interviews. The police identified the shooting victim as Bryce Stiff, a man. The victim's mother, other family members and friends all referred to the victim as Bryce and used male pronouns. At the funeral, some friends even wore commemorative T-shirts that referred to the victim as 'Bryce'."
Halston went on to state that the Beacon News does utilize available resources when writing about transgender individuals. "As a newspaper, we follow the AP [Associated Press] guidelines on gender-identity issues. I am familiar with the GLAAD guidelines and have consulted those as well."
The AP's most recent guidelines state, "Transgender: Use the pronoun preferred by the individuals who have acquired the physical characteristics of the opposite sex or present themselves in a way that does not correspond with their sex at birth. If that preference is not expressed, use the pronoun consistent with the way the individuals live publicly."
"The gold standard for journalists at large should be GLAAD's guidelines," Maza said. "The AP doesn't give guidance about general practices that journalists should be adopting when researching and writing these kinds of pieces. When news outlets are dealing with quickly evolving media landscapes, if there is a concern or a question about the victim's gender marker, the impulse should be cautious and neutral in reporting or be very certain about the way that they're identifying. It is easy to use gender neutral markers, to not use gender pronouns, to not include the word 'man' in a headline. Those things are very rarely necessary for an initial news report about a crime."
"As we're talking to a paper, we really press the importance of accurately identifying transgender people in their stories," Heffernan said. "Our report that specifically talks about those people who are victims of crime is called Doubly Victimized because these-usually transgender women of color-who are killed or murdered are revictimized by the media coverage that misgenders them. It is disturbing to see the lack of attention being brought to these murders on a national level. If the media is not covering them or not doing it correctly then we just don't know the numbers of transgender women who are being murdered."
"When a news outlet misgenders a victim it is straight-up, dangerous misinformation for the general public which is trying to understand what occurred in these incidents," Maza said. "It robs audiences of the ability to see the landscape under which these particular events are occurring. All the public hears about trans people are these high-profile celebrities or the sensationalistic trans stories that we typically see. They don't see the real acts of violence that have almost become unremarkable at this point. There's no context for a reader or television viewer to understand where this violence comes from and what potential solutions might be. When a media outlet parrots a police department report, it serves to undermine the success of the investigations being done about these incidents."
"It is important that we understand the level of violence and discrimination facing transgender people," Heffernan noted. "The consequence of not covering it is that people don't have a clear picture of what life is like for so many transgender people in this country."

Subject: Transgender persons; Murders & murder attempts; Shootings; Sexual orientation; Media coverage

Location: Aurora Illinois; United States--US

People: Blige, Keyshia

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: 19th transgender murder raises questions about reporting

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 51

Pages: 1,12-13

Number of pages: 3

Publication year: 2015

Publication date: Sep 16, 2015

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1720036973

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/19th-transgender-murder-raises-questions-about/docview/1720036973/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Sep 16, 2015

Last updated: 2023-09-26

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Demystifying sexual abuse in the LGBTQ community

Author: Toce, Sarah

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/demystifying-sexual-abuse-lgbtq-community/docview/1705741071/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Sexual abuse is a difficult topic for anyone to talk about. It evokes a lot of fear, confusion, anger, and shame-a potent mix that helps keep the topic out of our daily conversations. But sadly, abuse is part of our everyday world," Research Psychologist Dr. Nina Burrowes said. "It's a statistical inevitability that all of us have people in our lives who have experienced abuse-especially within the LGBT community.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=45&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=9&amp;date=2015-08-05&amp;atitle=Demystifying+sexual+abuse+in+the+LGBTQ+community&amp;au=Toce%2C+Sarah&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=45&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=9&amp;date=2015-08-05&amp;atitle=Demystifying+sexual+abuse+in+the+LGBTQ+community&amp;au=Toce%2C+Sarah&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Even with social-media posts flying every which way through the glass ceiling and into the depths of cyberspace, sexual abuse among lesbians is still not in the forefront of what readers seem to consume on a daily basis. Rather, it's which celebrity dyed their hair this week and headlines like, "Did Lindsay Lohan really Photoshop her own backside for Instagram?" that retain the most water.
"Sexual abuse is a difficult topic for anyone to talk about. It evokes a lot of fear, confusion, anger, and shame-a potent mix that helps keep the topic out of our daily conversations. But sadly, abuse is part of our everyday world," Research Psychologist Dr. Nina Burrowes said. "It's a statistical inevitability that all of us have people in our lives who have experienced abuse-especially within the LGBT community. Research data tells us that members of our community are more likely to report that they have experienced abuse. So it's essential that the LGBT community talks about it more."
The inevitable question is: "Why?"
"There are a few different theories. Most people are abused by men. For some people this can lead to a massive mistrust of men that prevents them from feeling safe enough to enter into a relationship with any man, and so they only form relationships with women," Burrowes explained. "I'm sure this is true for some women in the LGBT community, but I don't think it fully explains the data, especially as it doesn't help to explain why men in the LGBT community also tend to report higher levels of abuse."
Another theory involves the coming-out process.
"An alternative theory is about the process of coming out as a lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender. Many people who have experienced abuse repress, deny or minimize the experience to themselves. And so when they are filling in a survey they may not report the abuse as abuse-either because they are afraid of what people will think of them or because they are still not admitting the truth to themselves," Burrowes said. "It's possible that people who are comfortable stating that they are LGBT in surveys are also more likely to recognize that they have been abused and feel comfortable enough to disclose this on the survey."
Becoming a potential target is another rationale.
"Of course the most uncomfortable reason for the increased reporting of abuse within the LGBT community is that we could be the target of abuse-either because people are living in higher risk situations because they have been excluded from their own communities, because some abusers may specifically target the LGBT community, and because there are also abusers within our community," Burrowes said.
The abused are often silent witnesses to a crime that no one even knows exists.
"We have ideas in our head about abusers and abuse. We talk about men targeting children in playgrounds and strangers in alleyways. When you have an experience of abuse that is at the hands of someone you trusted, it can be very confusing," Burrowes said. "It can feel easier to blame yourself or dismiss what happened. We know that many people don't report the crimes to the police, but I believe that many people never tell anyone about what happened."
Often those who do tell another person or the authorities about the abuse are reprimanded themselves.
"A common reaction to someone who is in an abusive relationship is, 'Why don't you just leave?' This feels like the common sense thing to do, but often the situation is a lot more complex than that. An abuser can dominate every aspect of your life-the abuse can be physical, sexual, emotional, financial. Leaving can be a long process that requires a lot of support," Burrowes explained.
With the increase of acceptance regarding LGBT relationships with marriage laws, adoption rights and such, have statistics shown any decrease in domestic violence?
"Sadly, no. I don't see any connection between the legal status of your relationship and domestic violence," Burrowes said. "Heterosexual couples have had these legal rights for years and they have been abusing each other for just as long. However, the changes may mean that there is more legal power and financial rights for anyone who is looking to leave an abusive relationship."
No one is immune in helping to stop the cycle of abuse, according to Burrowes. "I think it's important that we engage all generations on this issue-from our elders down to our toddlers. It's important that young people are aware of the laws around consent and abuse. But it's more important that we help them learn about relationships, sex, love, respect, and body choice. Relationships and sex can be beautiful, but they are also extremely challenging. You can feel vulnerable, worried about your body, worried about pleasing your partner, scared about rejection, scared about commitment. We're psychologically as well as physically naked during sex and intimacy. We need to help young people live with these vulnerabilities and challenges rather than only focusing on the laws and avoiding sexually transmitted diseases."
Burrowes created a cartoon-based book to facilitate more discussion around the topic closest to her heart. The Courage to be Me joins a group of women as they find their strength to live authentic lives free of abuse.
"I wanted to use [The Courage to be Me] to reach out the person who has never talked to anyone about their abuse-the person who isn't ready to phone a helpline or get counseling," Burrowes shared. "This book is my way of gently explaining some of the psychology about abuse and illustrating the fact that you're not alone and you're not broken."
Learn more about Dr. Nina Burrowes and her work, via NinaBurrowes.com.

Subject: Sex crimes; Gays & lesbians; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Demystifying sexual abuse in the LGBTQ community

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 45

Pages: 9

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2015

Publication date: Aug 5, 2015

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1705741071

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/demystifying-sexual-abuse-lgbtq-community/docview/1705741071/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Aug 5, 2015

Last updated: 2023-09-25

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

COMMUNITY CALENDAR

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/community-calendar/docview/1703345585/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Queer, III and Okay 2015 Annual multidisciplinary performance series exploring, challenging, and reinventing narratives about the lives of queer individuals and their relationships to HIV and other forms of mental and chronic illness. 7:30pm DCA Storefront Theater 66 E Randolph St Chicago https://www.facebook.com/ events/920311198012717/

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=43&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=29&amp;date=2015-07-22&amp;atitle=COMMUNITY+CALENDAR&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=43&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=29&amp;date=2015-07-22&amp;atitle=COMMUNITY+CALENDAR&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Wed., July 22
5th annual GLAAD Chicago Leadership Council anniversary reception 5:00pm MillerCoors 16th Floor Pub 250 S Wacker Dr., https://www.glaad.org/tags/chicago
Genderqueer Chicago A grassroots group that works to create safe spaces for everyone to talk about, think about, explore and express gender. 7:00pm - 8:15pm Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted St.
Thursday, July 23
Move Your Body: The Evolution of House Music Exhibition in the Chicago Rooms celebrating more than 30 years of a homegrown art form that is now heard around the world. Through Aug. 16, 2015 7:00pm - 9:30pm Chicago Cultural Center 78 E. Washington St. Chicago http://www. cityofchicago.org/city/en/depts/dca/ suppJnfo/moveyourbody.html?utm_sourc e=Move+Your+Body+Exhibit+Preview+2015 &utm_campaign=Move+Your+Body+Exhibit +Preview+2015&utm_medium=email
The Newberry Book Fair Chicago's largest book binge offers bargains for every age through July 26 with 120,000+ used books, music and collectibles 10:00am - 6:00am Newberry Library 60 W Walton St Chicago http://www.newberry.org
Black Alphabet Film Festival Showcasing films and other works that highlight and explore the Black LGBTQ and same-genderloving (SGL) experience. Through July 26. Reva and David Logan Center for the Arts (July 25-26 at Center on Halsted); http:// www.blackalphabet.org
Lesbian Miniature Art Group Limited space (10 women). Limited size (6" x 6"). Bring supplies to work in your medium. Each will create her own work of art culminating in a Group Miniature Art Show. Mary Anne Cataldi is a professional artist and teaches computer illustration, visual arts, film animation and commercial arts. Every other Thursday. Please RSVP to: macataldi@aol. com or call. 6:30pm - 9:30pm 2418 W. Bloomingdale Ave., Unit 201, Chicago 773-718-6445
LGBTQ Pride: Past, Present and Future Examine the past, present, and future of the LGBTQ movement with a walking tour of the Legacy Walk, a public display of plaques about LGBTQ historic figures on North Halsted Street. Tour guided by Victor Salvo, Executive Director of The Legacy Project. Featuring: Tracy Bairn, Publisher and Executive Editor, Windy City Times, Christina Kahrl, co-founder of Baseball Prospectus; writer and editor for ESPN, and Victor Salvo. Moderated by Sam Abey, The Legacy Project Board Treasurer. Free. Space is limited. 5:00pm - 7:45pm Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted Chicago Tickets: https://my.barackobama.eom/page/s/ past-present-future
Increasing Diversity in Tech, More Than Just Buzz Words Leanne Pittsford, Founder & CEO Social Good Tech Week and Lesbians Who Tech speaking, along with Brooke Rickettes Tañara Golston. Hosted by Lesbians Who Tech & Linked In. Allieswelcome. Address to be provided to guests before the event. 5:30pm - 7:30pm Linkedin HQ Chicago West Loop, Chicago Tickets: http://www.eventbrite.com/e/increasingdiversity-in-tech-more-than-just-buzzwords-hosted-by-lesbia ns-who-techlinked-in-chicago-tickets-17462734509
Friday, July 24
July BTQ Book Discussion Group "Recognize: The Voices of Bisexual Men" by Robyn Ochs and H. Sharif Williams. Event is free and RSVP is not required. 7:00pm - 9:00pm Gerber Hart Library and Archives 5315 N Clark St., 773-381-8030 http:// gerberhart.org
Queer, III and Okay 2015 Annual multidisciplinary performance series exploring, challenging, and reinventing narratives about the lives of queer individuals and their relationships to HIV and other forms of mental and chronic illness. 7:30pm DCA Storefront Theater 66 E Randolph St Chicago https://www.facebook.com/ events/920311198012717/
National Gay & Lesbian Sports Hall of Fame Induction Ceremony. $30 or two for $50 6:00pm Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted Chicago Tickets: http://www.gayandlesbiansports.com
Andersonville Summer Sidewalk Sale Merchants will include old favorites and neighborhood newcomers. Through July 26. 10:00pm - 6:00pm 5000 to 5800 North Clark Street http://www.andersonville.org
Saturday, July 25
Depression & Bipolar Support Alliance (LGBTQ) Support meeting to talk about illnesses, symptoms, treatment, doctors, and personal issues such as dating, relationships and work. Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted 11:00am - 12:30pm Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted Chicago http:// dbsa-glbt-chicago.com
The Stories We Tell, Writing Workshop for survivors of sexual violence, domestic violence and trafficking. Two day workshop on testimonial writing. 10:00am - 5:00pm Illinois Holocaust Museum & Education Center 9603 Woods Dr. Skokie, IL 60077 http://voicesandfaces.org
The Biggest Loser open call Teams of two, each with at least 80 pounds to lose to compete on the NBC show. Or submit a video online. 10:00am - 4:00am The Biggest Loser Resort, 250 Schick Rd., Bloomingdale, http://www.thebiggestlosercasting. com
Out at Wrigley: Gay Day Cubs vs Phillies. Deck and terrace reserved seating available. 3:30pm Wrigley Field 1060 W Addison St # 1 Chicago Tickets: http:// outatwrigley.com
The Stories We Tell, Writing Workshop for survivors of sexual violence, domestic violence and trafficking Two day workshop on testimonial writing. 11:00am - 5:00pm Illinois Holocaust Museum & Education Center 9603 Woods Dr. Skokie, IL 60077 http://voicesandfaces.org
Randolph Street Market Pride Party Urban antiques market hosts around the clock entertainment, a beer garden with vintage carnival games and concessions, rainbow themed bites and drinks, and fest fashions from 300+ vintage and indie vendors. Makeup artist and body painter Orlando Barsallo will be painting Lady Liberty. Advance tickets $8, general admission $10, students with ID $3 or $5 at the gate. Children 12 and under free. 10:00pm - 5:00pm Beaux Arts Plumbers Hall 1340 W. Washington St.; 312-666-1200 http:// randolphstreetmarket.com
Sunday, July 26
I Am Cait viewing parties Weekly viewing party for Caitlyn Jenner's new docu-series on E!, I Am Cait 7:00pm Kit Kat Lounge & Supper Club 3700 N Halsted Chicago 773525-1111 http://KitKatChicago.comy
PFLAG Oak Park Parents, Family, Friends and Allies of Lesbians and Gays. 3:00pm First United Church, 848 Lake St, Oak Park
Monday, July 27
Transworks Peer leaders run a job program for gender non-conforming community members in the John Baran Cyber Center. Walk-ins welcome. Free. 12:00pm - 2:00pm Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted Chicago
LezFest: A One Night Fling Pride Films and Plays presents words, songs, music and theater all about ladies who love ladies who are artists. 7:00pm Mary's Attic 5400 N Clark St. http://pridefilmsandplays.com/lezfest-ii-a-one-night-fling-onjuly-27/
Tuesday, July 28
To Have and To Hold, same-sex marriage after Obergefell and Hodges Charles Schwab presents on legal and financial impact of Supreme Court decision with Tom Franklin, a financial and tax expert from Thomas H. Franklin & Associates and Ray Koenig III, a tax and legal expert from Clark Hill. RSVP 5:30pm - 7:30pm 430 N. Michigan Ave., 2nd Floor, Chicago https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/ChasSchwab2015
Gay Men's Book Group Just Kids by Patti Smith. Free. 7:00pm - 9:00pm Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted
Wed., July 29
From Bloomers to Lycra: Three Short Films Celebrating Women and Cycling Co-sponsored by Women Bike Chicago Viewing and discussion of three short films directed by women about women who have found self-empowerment and happiness on their bicycles 7:00pm Women & Children First Bookstore 5233 N Clark St; http://www. womenandchildrenfirst.com
KICK OF THE LITTER
Friday, July 24
Soccer player Megan Rapinoe will be among those honored at the National Gay & Sports Hall of Fame induction ceremony. (Note: Rapinoe may not be present.)

Subject: Non-binary gender

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: COMMUNITY CALENDAR

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 43

Pages: 29

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2015

Publication date: Jul 22, 2015

Section: the DISH

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 1703345585

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/community-calendar/docview/1703345585/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jul 22, 2015

Last updated: 2023-09-25

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Leaders reflect on activism as organization folds

Author: Maxwell, Carrie

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/leaders-reflect-on-activism-as-organization-folds/docview/1699516716/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: After the archiving event I was just in awe of the community stepping up and sharing what Amigas Latinas has meant to them," said [Alma Izquierdo]. "To hear an individual who was at a very challenging and difficult point in their life tell their story and just knowing that Amigas Latinas was there to help them that to me is the epitome of what Amigas Latinas has meant to the community. It's really had an impact on the LGBTQ community here in Chicago and across the United States.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=41&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2015-07-08&amp;atitle=Leaders+reflect+on+activism+as+organization+folds&amp;au=Maxwell%2C+Carrie&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=41&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2015-07-08&amp;atitle=Leaders+reflect+on+activism+as+organization+folds&amp;au=Maxwell%2C+Carrie&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   This month, Amigas Latinas will be folding after 20 years of support, advocacy and education for Chicago-area LGBTQ Latinas.
Co-founded in 1995 by Evette Cardona, Mona Noriega, Alicia Amador, Aurora Pineda, Karen Rothstein-Pineda, Norma Seledon, Mary Torres and Lydia Vega, Amigas Latinas grew from a monthly discussion group (platicas) to a non-profit organization providing services and events for LGBTQ Latinas and their allies.
On the eve of Amigas Latinas' final event, a number of leaders from over the years reflected on their time with the organization and how they feel about the organization ending. Although Amigas Latinas is folding, the organization's materials will be housed at the Gerber/Hart Library and Archives, and be made available to anyone seeking information about the organization. The library continues to accept materials from the organization to add to the archives.
Cardona-vice-president of programs for the Polk Bros. Foundation and Amigas Latinas' first board president-said that establishing the Aixa Diaz Latina Youth Scholarship Fund after Diaz, one of Amigas Latinas' other co-founders who died in 1999, was really important because it gave the organization an opportunity to support young Latina queer activists who were actively fighting homophobia in their schools and/or communities.
"With the recent Pride Parade I've been remembering when Amigas had their own float and the crowd would go wild when they saw us because I'd like to think that they weren't expecting a Latina queer float to come by with 50 women just wallowing in our lesbianism," said Cardona."I've had fun marching in the parade over the years but the best times were when Amigas had a float and I was marching with them."
Cardona noted that starting the Amiguitas Youth Group and doing service provider training for larger Latin@ organizations on how to better serve Latin@ queers as well as helping mainstream LGBTQ organizations figure out how to deal with Latin@ LGBTQ people were also important work that Amigas Latinas did. She also explained that the family work that they did, including picnics and discussion groups with children of queer Latinas, was also very exciting.
"I want people to know that so many things were different 20 years ago," said Cardona. "When we first started Amigas we could've never envisioned marriage or two women choosing to have children together and being out as a family. We couldn't have envisioned all the Latina queer women who are in positions of power and influence as they are now, whether it's Mona working for the City of Chicago [as the chair and commissioner of the Commission on Human Relations], me in my job or Alicia [Vega] being the vice-president of youth development at the Boys and Girls Club of Chicago, because you don't get more American than the Boys and Girls Club."
"In terms of Amigas folding, it was time," said Cardona. "That single need for one space where all Latina lesbians could gather isn't true anymore because we are everywhere. I always say that 20 years of organizing in the LGBTQ community is measured in dog years, not people years."
Noriega, Cardona's wife and founding board member of Amigas Latinas, said she really enjoyed all the family events as well as addressing intersectionality within the organization because part of what made Amigas Latinas important to her was sharing and exploring multiple identities.
As for what the organization has meant to her, Noriega said, "I'm happy for all the years that it existed, all the women I met and all the relationships that I formed. I feel like it was a consistent nurturing force in my life. I was able to learn and make contributions as we created a community. I will always appreciate that development opportunity and remember Amigas as a safe, warm and loving place where we both loved and challenged each other."
Vega, current archive coordinator and former board member of Amigas Latinas, noted that she was the first person to respond to Cardona's ad looking for Latina lesbians to become members of Amigas Latina.
"As I was coming out and embracing my identity, Amigas Latinas was the only place where I could bring all of myself-Latina and lesbian- to the table," said Vega. "After years of receiving support, I joined the board and found my place to give back to the community. I also learned fundraising, event planning and grant writing while on the board. So even though I gave of my time, I still gained so much more."
Vega explained that during her time on the board she spearheaded the first-of-its-kind comprehensive study of LGBTQ Latina women in Chicago called Proyecto Latina, which documented domestic-violence incidents, how and when people come out, discrimination and other aspects in the life-cycle of LGBTQ Latina women.
"As for Amigas folding, 20 years is a significantly long history, especially for a grassroots organization," said Vega. "Amigas Latinas has made an impact on so many lives and its impact will live on in the lives of those it touched. The official closing of the organization is administrative; the legacy of Amigas Latins lives on. The timing and way in which Amigas Latinas is folding are graceful and respectful. You rarely see this happen in this way."
Lourdes Torres-professor of Latin American and Latino studies at DePaul University and former board member and president of Amigas Latinas-recalled that when she moved to Chicago in 2000, one of the first things she did was look for queer Latina spaces. When she found Amigas Latinas, she immediately got involved. She noted that her first meeting was a focus group to figure out Amigas Latinas' next steps so she ended up learning a lot about the group from that meeting. Torres said she started going to events after that meeting but didn't participate on the board until 2006.
Torres said that she signed on to help Vega with her Proyecto Latina survey and she, along with Nicole Perez-a grad student who later became an Amigas Latinas board membersurveyed 305 queer Latina women in Chicago. They wrote up the findings of the survey which was published in 2008 by the non-profit group Mujeres Latinas En Acción. The report is currently housed on its website.
"It was important for me to be able to contribute to Amigas Latinas in that way," said Torres. "After the study was done we started responding to the issues including the high incidents of domestic violence within the Latina queer community. We held a series of successful platicas to train women on ways to deal with these issues in a productive way within their own community. That was cool because it involved Latinas who were members of the organization as well as queer friendly women who worked on issues surrounding domestic violence. One of the things I loved about Amigas Latinas was that it wasn't just about providing entertainment and social opportunities it was also about responding to significant issues within our own community."
Torres explained that she wanted to use her academic skills to document the history of the organization because what they were doing was unique and her concern was it wasn't being documented.
"If you look at studies of queer organizations, usually they only focus on the East and West coast and leave out the Midwest, like nothing is happening here, and that's especially true when you think about people of color organizing, because very little ofthat history is being documented," said Torres.
Torres has written two articles about this. One is in the Journal of Lesbian and Gay Studies and the other one was included in the companion book that came out when the Chicago History Museum had its "Out in Chicago" exhibit.
"What was great about Amigas Latinas was it wasn't just one big group," said Torres. "There were subgroups, including Madurando Elegante for older women; the youth group Amiguitas; and Entre Familia for families that were created to meet the needs of the different demographics within Amigas Latinas. When they got together, intergenerational connections occurred."
"I'm sad that it's ending but I'm grateful for the experience I got when I was a member of the leadership of the organization because it introduced me to Chicago politics in a new way, helped me develop new skills in terms of organizing and speaking to the media as well as running meetings and doing all kinds of things that I hadn't done politically," said Torres. "It was a great space for creating leaders and I'm grateful for that in my life and also for the other women of Amigas who've become leaders in their fields."
Alma Izquierdo-head of the makeup department on NBC's Chicago PD and Amigas Latinas' final board president-first got involved with Amigas Latinas by attending and promoting its events in the late 1990s. In 2010, she became a board member when the late Christina Santiago and Rosa Yadira Ortiz, who was then the board president, asked her to be on the board. Two years later, she became the board president.
"I will always remember the Siempre Latina galas that I helped organize," said Izquierdo. "It was a beautiful thing to see everyone there supporting Amigas Latinas. Also, the last event that I put together [was] at the Center on Halsted, with the comedian Sandra Vails and C.C. Carter as the emcee. It was a packed house and everyone had a great time."
As for the decision to dissolve the organization, Izquierdo said that, organically, it wasn't moving in the same direction as the Latina LGBTQ community as a whole was. Over time, she added, it was difficult to find people who were able to put in the time, effort and energy that it takes to run an organization like Amigas Latinas. Izquierdo noted that it took her about a year and a half to come to this decision. She added that she also met with a number of other leaders in the community for guidance as well as with Cardona, Noriega and a few of the other founders prior to making this decision.
"Since this announcement I've had people approach me and tell me that they want to start something new and I think that's wonderful," said Izquierdo. "I'm hoping that this situation will cause people to step up and either create something new or mentor and support the younger generation to help them become leaders. If that happens it will be the silver lining to Amigas folding."
"After the archiving event I was just in awe of the community stepping up and sharing what Amigas Latinas has meant to them," said Izquierdo. "To hear an individual who was at a very challenging and difficult point in their life tell their story and just knowing that Amigas Latinas was there to help them that to me is the epitome of what Amigas Latinas has meant to the community. It's really had an impact on the LGBTQ community here in Chicago and across the United States. To this day I'm still getting emails from people that have and are still using the survey that we did on domestic violence in the queer Latina community to this day."
Pineda-a bilingual (Spanish) benefits/ medical case manager at The Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center and founding board member of Amigas Latinas-has had a journey with the organization that's included meeting and marrying her wife. They later became parents but also participated in the creation of the organization's mission/vision statement and by-laws when Amigas Latinas obtained its non-profit status.
"During the October 2002 LLEGO International Conference in Miami, where we represented Amigas Latinas, my wife [Karen RothsteinPineda] and I decided to be a part of Catholic commitment ceremony which several other couples participated," said Pineda. "Evette and Mona were our commitment/wedding madrinas. Lydia Vega was my best women and Norma Seledon was Karen's maid of honor."
Pineda explained that, for her, Amigas Latinas was the place where she transformed from a shy and quiet person to an advocate for the LGBTQ community as well as the underserved youth, young adults and undocumented individuals that she sees at work.
"It was hard for me to hear that Amigas might need to fold but I did have the privilege, along with other members of Amigas, of making this hard decision," said Pineda, "I thank Alma for all her hard work and taking on this final task as president. I think it's time for others to come up with something new. Amigas Latinas did a lot but there are many lessons that can be learned. I support the fact that Amigas Latinas' history will be archived for others to see, examine and learn from."
"It's with a very heavy heart that I/we say 'adiós' to one the most honored and respected organizations of our Latina/o and LGBTQ family and community," said Julio Rodriguez, president of the board of directors of the Association for Latinos/as Motivating Action. "As leaders of a critical organization, the women of Amigas Latinas were sisters and mentors and they gave a voice and spirit to the Latina movement in Chicago.
"Unfortunately, the departure of Amigas Latinas from the Latino and LGBTQ movement is another example of the lack of resources and supports for grassroots advocacy and organizing by both the public and private sectors. Finally, we can never forget the amazing contributions and accomplishments that Amigas Latinas gave to our movement and our collective families. It is now up to the rest of us to carry on the legacy. Adiós, mis amigas!"
"The loss of Amigas Latinas leaves a big hole in the LGBTQ social justice movement, especially in this moment where organizations that primarily serve queer and trans people of color are closing across the country," said Kim Hunt, executive director of Affinity Community Services. "Affinity honors the work and the history of Amigas Latinas and will always consider its leaders and constituents to be sisters in the struggle."
Amigas Latinas' last event, "Siempre Latina Celebrando 20 Años," will take place Friday, July 10, 8 p.m.-l a.m. at Michelle's Ballroom, 2800 W. Belmont Ave.
See www.facebook.com/amigas. Iatinas.l6?fref=ts for more information.

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Hispanic Americans; Nonprofit organizations; Activism

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Amigas Latinas; NAICS: 813990

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Leaders reflect on activism as organization folds

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 41

Pages: 1,6

Number of pages: 2

Publication year: 2015

Publication date: Jul 8, 2015

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1699516716

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/leaders-reflect-on-activism-as-organization-folds/docview/1699516716/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jul 8, 2015

Last updated: 2023-09-25

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Commissioner launches Off the Sidelines-Chicago

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/commissioner-launches-off-sidelines-chicago/docview/1691264186/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Mikva Challenge leader and Lindblom Math & Science Academy junior Heaven Johnson said: "For me, sexual education for teenagers is an issue that's close to my heart and one that I'm hoping more Chicago girls and women take action on.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=37&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2015-06-10&amp;atitle=Commissioner+launches+Off+the+Sidelines-Chicago&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=37&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2015-06-10&amp;atitle=Commissioner+launches+Off+the+Sidelines-Chicago&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   CHICAGO-Bridget Gainer, Cook County commissioner, has launched Off The Sidelines (OTS) Chicago, the first chapter of the national campaign founded by U.S. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand.
Off the Sidelines Chicago calls upon women and girls to connect personally, lead professionally and make their voices heard on the issues they care about. Gillibrand was the guest of honor at the launch event before hundreds of Chicago women June 5 at 1871 in Merchandise Mart.
A non-partisan organization, OTS Chicago is a platform for women across the region to connect with civic initiatives and humanitarian issues big and small, empowering them to turn their ideas and interests into action. It will serve as a bridge to connect women to one another and to the opportunity to lead. OTS Chicago will be an information hub, providing tools and resources-known as "Issue Activation Kits"-that will share events and volunteer opportunities as well as provide a way for people to lend their voices through traditional and social-media channels.
"I am very excited to see OTS Chicago taking the initiative to empower women and girls in their community," said Gillibrand. "This type of grassroots movement will be powerful for years to come."
"I have long been a supporter of the Senator and her work on campus sexual assault, LGBT rights and pay equity," Gainer said. "But, as important, she is a driving force to bring women's leadership to every aspect of civic, political and professional life. To further all these efforts, I am proud to bring Off The Sidelines to Chicago."
OTS Chicago organizers met with women across Chicago and Cook County over the past few months and repeatedly heard that a missing ingredient for amplifying women's involvement on core civic, social and workplace issues was a single group that provides quick and comprehensive access to the work being done by the local organizations across the city and county.
One of the goals of OTS Chicago is to be that movement, and at this morning's event Commissioner Gainer highlighted a number of organizations, including YWCA Metropolitan Chicago; Chicago Says No More, a domestic violence and sexual assault prevention group; and Mikva Challenge, an organization promoting civic engagement in teens, that have all demonstrated successful strategies for engaging women and girls locally.
Dorri McWhorter, CEO of YWCA Metropolitan Chicago, said: "Efforts like Off The Sidelines Chicago are vital to ensure that women come out of the shadows and help shape the future for women, families and humanity."
Kristie Paskvan, CFO of Mesirow Financial and founder of Chicago Says No More, said: "I am thrilled to have an organization like Off The Sidelines Chicago that can help women raise their collective voices to effect meaningful changes now and for future generations."
Mikva Challenge leader and Lindblom Math & Science Academy junior Heaven Johnson said: "For me, sexual education for teenagers is an issue that's close to my heart and one that I'm hoping more Chicago girls and women take action on. I'm grateful that Off The Sidelines Chicago has given me the opportunity to share what I've learned on the topic with remarkable women and girls from across the city, and I'm looking forward to seeing many of them get more involved in teaching teens about sexual health."
For more information on OTS Chicago and to receive the June Issue Activation Kit, visit www.OTSChicago.org.

Subject: Commissioners; Women; Social activism; Citizen participation; Grass roots movement

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Gainer, Bridget; Gillibrand, Kirsten

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Commissioner launches Off the Sidelines-Chicago

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 37

Pages: 8

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2015

Publication date: Jun 10, 2015

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1691264186

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/commissioner-launches-off-sidelines-chicago/docview/1691264186/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jun 10, 2015

Last updated: 2023-09-22

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Deborah's Place marks 30 years fighting for homeless women

Author: Hammond, Gretchen Rachel

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/deborahs-place-marks-30-years-fighting-homeless/docview/1687159699/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [Deborah]'s Place Learning Centers help women connect to the rich diversity of arts and culture that the rest of Chicago's residents and tourists take for granted, whether that is tickets to a play, museum or Cubs game. "You might be dealing with homelessness but you are a citizen and all citizens have a right to what author Earl Shorris called 'the life of the downtown'," [Audrey Thomas] said. "Homeless people feel isolated from arts and culture.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=35&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2015-05-27&amp;atitle=Deborah%27s+Place+marks+30+years+fighting+for+homeless+women&amp;au=Hammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=35&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2015-05-27&amp;atitle=Deborah%27s+Place+marks+30+years+fighting+for+homeless+women&amp;au=Hammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   The Old Testament tells a story of a powerful woman of Israel named Deborah who one day saw the terrible oppression of her people and set out to raise an army of 10,000 to combat it. In her song she says that the "villagers in Israel would not fight; they held back until I, Deborah, arose-a mother in Israel."
When in 1985 a group of between eight and 10 "founding mothers" came together to fight for the city of Chicago's homeless women, they called the first overnight emergency shelter they improvised at a North Side church gymnasium Deborah's Place.
Starting at 7 p.m. on June 12, 2015, at the Harold Washington Library, Deborah's Place will mark 30 years spent in a relentless battle to end the cycle of homelessness that affects an estimated 12,000 Chicago women annually-56 percent of whom are reported to be victims of domestic violence, 7,200 of whom have experienced more than one occurrence of being homeless.
Audrey Thomas has been the CEO of Deborah's Place for 11 years. She started as a volunteer for the organization in 1986 and continued on to eventually providing direct service and management. Thomas has seen more than 4,000 women empowered regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity by the employment training, access to education and healthcare, case management, permanent, interim and subsidized community-based housing offered by the organization, in addition to its Safe Haven program for women with severe mental illnesses.
Thomas told Windy City Times that when she joined Deborah's Place, homeless women were the most ignored and undervalued population in the city. "There weren't any services for women only," she recalled. "Most of the shelters that had beds for women housed many more men so women were forced to be in these unsafe environments. Many were choosing instead to sleep rough."
In 1985 the Community Emergency Shelter Organization (CESO) had engaged in a study of service gaps for Chicago's homeless population. Highest among those gaps were those for women. Philanthropist and activist Patricia "Patty" Crowley held a brown-bag lunch at her home to discuss the results.
"These women became what we call our 'founding mothers'," Thomas explained. "Within a few short weeks they pulled together their resources, contacts and networks and started welcoming women into the gym of Immaculate Conception Church. The founding mothers were also the volunteers. They had some mats on the floor, they brought in food for dinner and went out to the streets approaching women who were sleeping there and into shelters where women had to stay among men."
Crowley and the rest of the founding mothers offered them an alternative. Within a year Deborah's Place had moved to a larger space and continued to grow services and programs exponentially.
"The founding mothers created an organization with a strong governance structure," Thomas said. "So eventually they were able to start a daytime shelter in Wicker Park and a transitional housing program. There have been challenging times but because we had such a strong foundation we have always had diversified funding and the ability to protect our core mission as we grew or as we made tough decisions."
As a volunteer during the organization's formative years, Thomas was also going into the shelters where women were housed with men. "I just wanted to bundle them all up and take them with me," she said. "They would come to our day shelter and say 1 would be dead if I couldn't be here'. The vulnerability and unsafe conditions for women and people who identify as women should give us all a sense of accountability."
Yet while other advocacy programs and shelters centered around and for homeless women have developed along with Deborah's Place over the past three decades, Thomas believes that nationwide attitudes toward the population have not changed.
"These women have complex issues, problems and stories about how they came to be homeless," she said. "Society in many ways is unforgiving of women who are unaccompanied. There are the issues of white privilege, racism and poverty that we haven't addressed. But a common theme among homeless women is that they lack resources to pay for the housing available. There is a dearth of affordable housing in the city. There was housing that needed to be improved but the response instead was to destroy it and not put anything in its place."
By 2004, Deborah's Place leadership realized that simply providing emergency shelters was not a solution and instead decided to focus on long-term stability for women in terms of housing, health, income and ultimately selfdetermination and a control over their lives.
The Deborah's Place Safe Haven program, which today works with and houses 15 chronically homeless women who suffer from a severe mental illness, was named after Dolores, who came to the organization in 1986 and remained there until she passed away shortly after the turn of the millennium.
"She was older and she had a mental illness but she was very private," Thomas remembered. "There were staff with her all the time and she was never alone. I remember one day she said she had never been to the Planetarium. So they went. This was a woman who was in her 60s who had lived in Chicago all her life who had never been to the Planetarium. It might as well have been a thousand miles away. She didn't believe she had access to it. That's how poverty and homelessness isolates people."
Deborah's Place Learning Centers help women connect to the rich diversity of arts and culture that the rest of Chicago's residents and tourists take for granted, whether that is tickets to a play, museum or Cubs game. "You might be dealing with homelessness but you are a citizen and all citizens have a right to what author Earl Shorris called 'the life of the downtown'," Thomas said. "Homeless people feel isolated from arts and culture. There are financial and emotional barriers-the feeling that they don't deserve it."
There are many women whose faces and lives will forever be burned into Thomas's mind. One named Bau who was staying at the day shelter in 1987 had a particularly strong influence over her. "She saw me running around there one day and she came up to me and said, 'Honey, taking care of humanity is not like selling jelly donuts'. It's something I've never forgotten. This isn't an assembly line job. You have to stop and treat each person as an individual. You have to listen and understand where they are and what their issues, concerns and problems are. No solution is the same. Deborah's Place has always been somewhere that meets women where they are and begins a journey with them."
One commonality among each of the women Thomas and the rest of the staff and volunteers of Deborah's Place have seen over the years is shame.
"I hear them talk about the shame of their poverty and being homeless and the way that they are viewed and treated," Thomas said, struggling to contain her emotions. "They feel they ought to be ashamed of themselves for the situation they're in. Some homeless women have had children removed from their care. Some have been victims of abuse or were part of the sex trade just to survive. Yet people are very unsympathetic about that.
"The thing society hasn't got past is deserving poor and undeserving poor. People who have a disease or children or stray abused animals are deserving of compassion and care but someone whose lives have led them to poverty are considered undeserving. It's been said that people are responsible for the choices they make but society is responsible for the choices they have. We have expectations of the choices people who are homeless or live in poverty make that comes out of a white, middle-class idea. When people look at someone who is homeless they don't understand how time consuming it is and how much energy it takes just to take care of your day-to-day needs."
The generation who lived through October 1929 and the years which followed knew well that homelessness was just a bad day at the stock market, a small series of or even one change in fortune away for any individual no matter how high their economic status or social standing. Thomas said this remains true today, although it is so widely unacknowledged that when it does happen to someone the reaction is akin to physical shock.
"We had one woman called Angela who had come through our interim program who couldn't believe she was there. She just couldn't believe she was homeless," Thomas said. "Because just a couple of years before that she had a home and a car and was employed at a bank. After the recession the bank when out of business. She couldn't find another job, went through her savings and had to sell her car and leave her apartment. She had to stay with us for several months until she got back control of her life and pulled herself together."
For Angela, it was a happy ending. "She found another job and saved money and now has her own home again," Thomas said. "She still comes to the gathering of women who have moved on from Deborah's Place who say to the others, 'It's going to be OK. You can do it too.'"
The close community of 325 women age 18 and up that Deborah's Place serves annually includes lesbian, transgender and gender nonconforming individuals. "We're doing a lot of internal work on transgender inclusion," Thomas said. "Staff training, internal dialogue and language to make sure we are sending a message to the community that we are completely inclusive."
Communications Manager Erin Watson told Windy City Times that the June 12 event, while looking back on the achievements of Deborah's Place, will also serve as a rebranding launch pad for the organization.
"We are a dynamic and growing organization with a very rich past and a very exciting future," Watson said. "The new brand is designed to be more reflective of how open we are. We meet people where they are and honor who they are. If you come in and have something that's important to you about your identity or your sexuality, our staff will always be welcoming to you."
While Thomas stated that the budget cuts proposed by Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner may make for challenging times as Deborah's Place moves beyond its thirtieth year, she is confident the systems put in place by the founding mothers-some of whom remain with the organization today as volunteers-will continue to sustain its programs while Deborah's Place begins to take on the policies and issues that directly impact the women it serves.
"We are creating an advocacy agenda that focuses on policy in a structural, deliberate and thoughtful way on a city, state and federal level," she said. "Partnerships and collaborations will be integral to the future of Deborah's Place as long as they best serve the women. The answer to homelessness is affordable housing and support and that doesn't happen without a community of people or an organization that is compassionate and mission driven. As long as we are benefitting the women, we're good."
For more information about Deborah's Place visit: https://www.deborahsplace.org.
For tickets to the anniversary event, visit https://myab.co/events/Gv.

Subject: Anniversaries; Homeless people; Shelters; Women

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Deborahs Place; NAICS: 624221

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Deborah's Place marks 30 years fighting for homeless women

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 35

Pages: 8

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2015

Publication date: May 27, 2015

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1687159699

Document URL: https://www.pro quest.com/newspapers/deborahs-place-marks-30-years-fighting-homeless/docview/1687159699/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 27, 2015

Last updated: 2023-09-21

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Griner, Johnson under seven-game suspension

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/griner-johnson-under-seven-game-suspension/docview/1685112917/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [Laurel J. Richie] also said that [Brittney Griner] pled guilty April 28 in Goodyear City Court to misdemeanor disorderly conduct; Griner has to complete a 26-week course and, upon doing so, the disorder-conduct charge will be dismissed. Johnson's case (transferred to county court) is pending.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=34&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=30&amp;date=2015-05-20&amp;atitle=Griner%2C+Johnson+under+seven-game+suspension&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=34&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=30&amp;date=2015-05-20&amp;atitle=Griner%2C+Johnson+under+seven-game+suspension&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   The WNBA has suspended AIL-Stars and married couple Brittney Griner and Glory Johnson for seven games each after their domestic violence arrests in April.
The two were arrested on suspicion of assault after a fight in the home they recently bought. They were married recentLy in Phoenix.
WNBA President Laurel J. Richie said in a statement issued May 15, "The WNBA takes alL acts of violence extremeLy seriously. It is our strong belief that violence has absolutely no pLace in society, in sports or in this league.
"As president, it is my responsibility to protect the league and uphold its values. Our athLetes represent the WNBA, and they all must abide by the league's standards of conduct. In this case, Brittney and Glory faiLed to do so, and that is unacceptable."
Richie also said that Griner pled guilty April 28 in Goodyear City Court to misdemeanor disorderly conduct; Griner has to complete a 26-week course and, upon doing so, the disorder-conduct charge will be dismissed. Johnson's case (transferred to county court) is pending.

Subject: Athletes; Expulsions & suspensions; Domestic violence; Arrests; Professional basketball

People: Griner, Brittney; Johnson, Glory

Company / organization: Name: Womens National Basketball Association; NAICS: 813990

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Griner, Johnson under seven-game suspension

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 34

Pages: 30

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2015

Publication date: May 20, 2015

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1685112917

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/griner-johnson-under-seven-game-suspension/docview/16851129 17/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 20, 2015

Last updated: 2023-09-21

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Griner, Johnson tie the knot

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/griner-johnson-tie-knot/docview/1683763412/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: People.com reported that, as about 75 guests looked on, the brides, both 24, were married beneath an archway at the Pointe Hilton Tapatio Cliffs Resort. Their first dance was to Ed Sheeran's "Thinking Out Loud."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=33&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=22&amp;date=2015-05-13&amp;atitle=Griner%2C+Johnson+tie+the+knot&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=33&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=22&amp;date=2015-05-13&amp;atitle=Griner%2C+Johnson+tie+the+knot&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Just two weeks after WNBA star Brittney Griner and fiancee/fellow basketball player Glory Johnson were arrested on assault and disorderly-conduct allegations, the couple tied the knot in a ceremony in Phoenix, Arizona, USA Today reported.
Griner and Johnson have been engaged since last August.
Following her arrest, Griner pleaded guilty to disorderly conduct and will attend domestic violence counseling.
People.com reported that, as about 75 guests looked on, the brides, both 24, were married beneath an archway at the Pointe Hilton Tapatio Cliffs Resort. Their first dance was to Ed Sheeran's "Thinking Out Loud."
Johnson, a forward with the Tulsa Shock, wore a full-length, strapless champagne gown with a small train by Matthew Christopher that she selected from Bridals by Lori in Atlanta on an episode of TLC's Say Yes to the Dress.

Subject: Athletes; Arrests; Assaults; Disorderly conduct; Gays & lesbians; Same sex marriage

Location: Phoenix Arizona; United States--US

People: Griner, Brittney; Johnson, Glory

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Griner, Johnson tie the knot

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 33

Pages: 22

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2015

Publication date: May 13, 2015

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1683763412

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/griner-johnson-tie-knot/docview/1683763412/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 13, 2015

Last updated: 2023-09-21

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Amigas Latinas to fold after 20 years; last event July 10

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/amigas-latinas-fold-after-20-years-last-event/docview/1681103841/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: In recent years, Amigas Latinas found it increasingly difficult to maintain earlier levels of programming and advocacy. "We struggled with this decision," says [Alma Izquierdo], "because we know that there are still women out there who haven't found the community or the support they need to come out as LGBTQQ Latinas." At the same time, the board notes that over the past 20 years there has been a significant expansion in the availability of services to LGBTQ Latinos in Chicago.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=32&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2015-05-06&amp;atitle=Amigas+Latinas+to+fold+after+20+years%3B+last+event+July+10&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=32&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2015-05-06&amp;atitle=Amigas+Latinas+to+fold+after+20+years%3B+last+event+July+10&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   After 20 years of offering a wide range of support, education and advocacy for Chicagoarea LGBTQQ Latinas, Amigas Latinas has announced the organization will fold.
"We did not take this decision lightly, it was over a year-long process," said board president Alma Izquierdo. "But we have to recognize that despite a vibrant legacy, we no longer have the resources or capacity to continue our work in the ways that we think our growing and changing community deserves."
Founded in 1995 as a monthly discussion group, Amigas Latinas was the only Chicagoland organization specifically serving LBTQQ Latinas for almost two decades.
At its peak, Amigas Latinas offered monthly pláticas (chats) in members' homes, covering topics that ranged from identity, relationships, and family issues to mental health, domestic violence, and legal issues, as well as support groups, workshops, educational training, public programs and events.
Volunteer-run for most of its organizational life, Amigas Latinas advocated to ensure that legislators, funders, and other not-for-profit organizations consider the intersection of issues faced by LGBTQQ Latinas, who often struggle with invisibility or discrimination within Latina/o communities and within larger LGBTQ organizations.
The organization is perhaps best known for its efforts to document the violence and discrimination, both domestic and external, facing LGBTQQ Latinas. A 2007 study spearheaded by the organization entitled Proyecto Latina was the first to survey the specific issues facing LGBTQQ Latinas in Chicago. The findings of that report are still the primary data used to cite the health and violence issues facing LGBTQQ Latinas.
Other accomplishments included:
- Amiguitas Youth Group: Created to offer the first youth group specifically for Latina adolescents and 20-somethings who identify as LGBTQQ.
-Entre Familia: Developed to provide a safe environment for parents and friends of Latino LGBTQ persons to meet and talk about their lives. Most parents attended with their sons and daughters.
-Madurando Elegante: A group for women to explore issues related to aging gracefully as a Latina who loves and partners with women.
-Projecto Basta: Service Provider Training: Training offered to professionals and nonprofits who serve Latinas regarding cultural issues related to Latina women who love women in terms of mental health, substance abuse and domestic violence.
-La Dulce Palabra Spoken Word Ensemble: A spoken word collective comprised of LGBTQQ and ally artists who foster self-expression and creativity. It started as a collaboration between En Las Tablas Performing Arts Center and Amigas Latinas.
In recent years, Amigas Latinas found it increasingly difficult to maintain earlier levels of programming and advocacy. "We struggled with this decision," says Izquierdo, "because we know that there are still women out there who haven't found the community or the support they need to come out as LGBTQQ Latinas." At the same time, the board notes that over the past 20 years there has been a significant expansion in the availability of services to LGBTQ Latinos in Chicago.
The organization plans to archive its history in collaboration with Gerber/Hart Library. An exhibit celebrating Amigas Latinas will take place in June.
On July 10, founders, former board members, past and current Amigas Latinas members, friends and families will come together to celebrate the organization's 20-year-long history. More information will be forthcoming.

Subject: Community organizations; Hispanic Americans; Gays & lesbians

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Amigas Latinas; NAICS: 813319

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Amigas Latinas to fold after 20 years; last event July 10

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 32

Pages: 6

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2015

Publication date: May 6, 2015

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1681103841

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/amigas-latinas-fold-after-20-years-last-event/docview/1681103841/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 6, 2015

Last updated: 2023-09-21

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Jussie Smollett and Yazz: Lyons rule 'Empire'

Author: Nunn, Jerry

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jussie-smollett-yazz-lyons-rule-empire/docview/1677222872/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [Jussie Smollett]: I'm excited because there's so much more to come. The dope thing about season one is there are so many questions still to be answered. I feel like season one was the set-up and then season two will be, "Let's go back and let's clean up all of the Lyon's stuff." I'm very happy where [Jamal]'s journey has taken him from beginning to now, and where it's going to end up going.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=28&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=13&amp;date=2015-04-08&amp;atitle=Jussie+Smollett+and+Yazz%3A+Lyons+rule+%27Empire%27&amp;au=Nunn%2C+Jerry&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=28&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=13&amp;date=2015-04-08&amp;atitle=Jussie+Smollett+and+Yazz%3A+Lyons+rule+%27Empire%27&amp;au=Nunn%2C+Jerry&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Headnote TELEVISION
In only a few short months, the Fox television show Empire, created by openly gay producer and director Lee Daniels, has conquered the world. The story centering around a dying music mogul named Lucious Lyon played by Terrence Howard and his broken family has struck a chord with many viewers. The network has already announced renewal of the show for a second season.
Jussie Smollett plays Jamal Lyon, the gay middle son on the show. In the past, Smollett has appeared in movies such as The Mighty Ducks and the LGBT indie The Skinny. He confirmed recently that he is gay in his personal life in an interview with Ellen Degeneres.
Bryshere Y. Gray uses the stage name Yazz The Greatest while playing the part of Hakeem Lyon, the youngest son and rapper in the family. He opened for fellow lyric performers Fabolous and 2 Chains before landing the gig on Empire.
Smollett and Gray have been signed to Columbia Records as solo music acts. The soundtrack debuted at number one recently on the Billboard album chart, topping Madonna and making it the first TV soundtrack since Glee in 2010 to manage this feat.
Windy City Times, with a group of reporters, talked to the dynamic duo the day before the show's finale.
Hey, guys! I was an extra for the big white party scene that was filmed 1n Chicago.
Jussie Smollett: Yay!
Yazz: Alright! You were there for the moment.
The big coming-out moment, yes. I love that you are filming 1n Chicago but why 1s the story then set 1n New York?
Yazz: Lee told me, he said, "Chicago is best for you, Yazz. It's best for the cast because we want to be focused. It's going to be better than doing LA and recording in Philly. It's just going to be more easier for scheduling."
Jussie, do you want to be more Involved with the LGBT community 1n Chicago next time you are 1n town? I know you do a lot of activist work.
Jussie: I work with tons of charities and we've been doing some stuff in Chicago, but we haven't had time in Chicago. I feel like with season two we'll have a lot more time to get into the community and really stomp for our fellow men and women.
Has this role Influenced you as a gay activist?
Jussie: You have to realize that I'm 31 years old, so this life isn't new for me. Being an activist-a human-rights activist-has been something that I'm passionate about since day one. One of my godmothers is Angela Davis, so it's like my mom didn't even really give us a choice growing up. We had a choice what sports we played, in what music we listened to, and in the careers that we chose. We did not have a choice in being activists because that was the one thing that she said, "If you do nothing in your life, you've got to give back."
It's just who we are. It's literally like the thing that feeds me the most. If I didn't do it then I would feel empty. I talk to young LGBT youth and to young women with babies that have been raped or have suffered through domestic violence and have gotten out of it. That's what I do. So as far as has it changed me? No. It's just further cemented who I am in my own life and the work that I know that I'm put on this earth to do.
Yazz: To piggyback a little bit off what he said, I had a close friend get killed from violence in the streets. From 16 years old, I went out talking to the kids because that really touched me internally, that somebody that got killed was that close to me. My mom would pack up a Camry and drive to Michigan, use our own money, and we weren't really that fortunate, and we would go out to these schools and I would perform.
I would talk to the kids and give them a little bit of inspiration because I was really hurt from that situation and from there, I kind of built a fan base through talking to the kids and letting them know this is possible. I would tell them to follow their dreams.
Your character's lover on the show, Jussie, was thinking about leaving because of Lola, your daughter. It looks like things get hot and heavy between the two of you.
Jussie: Yeah, on top of Daddy's desk. Jamal is not done with Ryan yet. There's some loving involved and they're not done. It's not necessarily a huge storyline in the finale. Lola, my baby, is no longer living with me or living with the family, so I guess they can at least have sex.
There has been a lot of talk about Jussle's sexuality. Have you been asked the sexuality question before, Yazz?
Yazz: It was on some comedic type of blog but when you see me out with a beautiful young lady then you know what it is.
It's 2015. If you're that insecure about yourself that you can't love somebody for who they are, then you just need to just stay in the house and lock the door. I'm that type of person that doesn't care who you are. I love everybody and I feel like that's how the world should be.
Jussie: And that is why we love Yazz The Greatest!
How have fans been on the street?
Yazz: The fans are amazing. When we were in Chicago and everything started building up, we used to go to the gym and work out, people would go bananas. We can't go grocery-shopping no more. It's just pandemonium, but it's a dream come true. We're working with the greatest, Oscar-nominated actors and directors, so it's great.
Jussie: For me, it's been a really wonderful experience thus far. Everybody has been really supportive and loving. I just get the most beautiful letters from kids, both homosexual and heterosexual children, telling me that they relate to Jamal in so many ways. I feel like as an artist, we don't always get these types of roles to come along that really say something about what you care about. When they do, you jump at the chance.
I feel like we all, in our own individual ways, fought so hard for these roles because of what it meant and what it said. It's so entertaining, glamorous and fantastic, but it also is saying something about where our society is today and that means so much. When I get those tetters, I'm a crying fool anyway, because I'm a Cancer, but it's just really, really emotional and I love it. It's been wonderful.
Are you happy how your characters ended up on the finale?
Jussie: I'm excited because there's so much more to come. The dope thing about season one is there are so many questions still to be answered. I feel like season one was the set-up and then season two will be, "Let's go back and let's clean up all of the Lyon's stuff." I'm very happy where Jamal's journey has taken him from beginning to now, and where it's going to end up going.
Yazz: We're excited about brother Andre, where he goes-he gets better and better. I feel like his story is real important and it grows and people can learn from his experiences.
How was 1t working with Snoop Dogg on the finale?
Yazz: It was great to work with Snoop. We had to prepare for our scene for like an hour in his trailer. It was good to vibe out with the legend Snoop Dogg and to get some jewels I can take into life and use and to apply them to my everyday life.
And Patti LaBelle?
Yazz: I thought Patti was going to bring me some chicken, man, but she didn't. I actually got the chance to talk to her backstage before she performed with Jussie and she's phenomenal. She's a great person. It was an honor to meet Miss Patti LaBelle.
Who would your dream guests be for season two?
Jussie: For me, it's Mariah Carey, Janet Jackson and Brandy. I really want them just because I want to sing with them.
Yazz: For me, it's Madonna, Queen Latifah and Rihanna.
Jussie: Good one, Yazz!
What's the timing on your Individual albums and any chance of you two going out on a tour?
Jussie: As far as the albums, we are in the thick of promoting the Empire soundtrack right now. It's available for download and purchase on iTunes by the way. The album will have to be sometime next year because we do this promotional tour and then I'm going to be writing and recording. We go straight to filming season two come early summer, so there's not necessarily a lot of time.
As far as a tour, that'll probably also have to be next year. There will be little spot dates here and there that everybody can fit in. It's just our schedules are madness right now.
Yazz: To be honest, I am not focused on dropping an album. If it's in demand, then it will happen.
What's the one thing that you both want to take from the experience?
Yazz: There are many elements but I think, family. You got to talk to your family. You got to stay grounded. You need to pray a lot. You need to eat healthy.
Jussie: I think we both have additions to our families with the cast and crew, such incredible people.
I feel like what I've seen is the stereotypes that society tries to push down our throats actually are not real. That what we're seeing is we're seeing the very people that society wants us to believe would not accept someone like a Jamal, those are the very people that are coming up to me being like, "Brother, I love you. I respect you. Keep doing what you're doing."
I don't know if it's opened my eyes because I feel like my eyes saw that already, but I feel like what it did is that it killed that cycle that started to feed itself off of that. There are really genuine, good, honest, respectful, and loving people in the world. That's why I love the viewers so much, because that's what they show every single day.
Read the past Interview with Tra1 Byers, who plays other brother Andre Lyon, at www. w1ndydtymed1agroup.com.

Subject: Actors; Television programs; Singers; Careers

Business indexing term: Subject: Careers

People: Gray, Bryshere; Smollett, Jussie

Company / organization: Name: Fox Entertainment Group Inc; NAICS: 512110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Jussie Smollett and Yazz: Lyons rule 'Empire'

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 28

Pages: 13,19

Number of pages: 2

Publication year: 2015

Publication date: Apr 8, 2015

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1677222872

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jussie-smollett-yazz-lyons-rule-empire/docview/1677222872/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Apr 8, 2015

Last updated: 2023-09-21

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Longtime political activist Jean Hardisty dies

Author: Baim, Tracy

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/longtime-political-activist-jean-hardisty-dies/docview/1671672545/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: In PRA's 10-year anniversary report in 1991, four years after the agency moved from Chicago to the Boston area, Hardisty wrote that the agency had grown and had a major impact, but at the same time, "Each year has been more depressing and alarming that the Last.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=26&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2015-03-25&amp;atitle=Longtime+political+activist+Jean+Hardisty+dies&amp;au=Baim%2C+Tracy&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=26&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2015-03-25&amp;atitle=Longtime+political+activist+Jean+Hardisty+dies&amp;au=Baim%2C+Tracy&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Jean V. Hardisty, 69, has passed away at her Somerville, Massachusetts, home after a recurrence of Lymphoma, according to her colleagues at Political Research Associates (PRA), a social-justice, right-wing watch group she founded in 1981 in Chicago under the name Midwest Research.
PRA has been a critical voice in fighting the American right wing. Hardisty wrote dozens of papers and gave countless speeches on the conservative movement. She also testified in the court fight over Colorado's anti-gay Amendment 2, among her other work on Legislative issues.
Hardisty, who was inducted into Chicago's Gay and Lesbian Hall of Fame in 1995, has an extensive List of accomplishments starting during her Chicago days when she co-founded the city's first shelter for battered women and cofounded and was board president for the Crossroads Fund.
In a 2008 interview for the Chicago Gay History Project, Hardisty said she became a selfidentified Lesbian "when I finally stopped denying that I was a Lesbian. And the way that I could do that was because of the women's movement. I was married when I was about 23, to a very nice man ... but he said to me at one point, you know if you are Lesbian, you need to go and be Lesbian."
Born in Washington, D.C., in 1945, Hardisty received a bachelor's in art history from Northwestern University in 1967, followed by master's degrees in political science from the University of Southern California and from Northwestern, and a 1976 Ph.D. in political science from Northwestern.
She was director of a 1977 Summer Institute on Africa at Colgate University and from 1976 to 1980 taught at Colgate, Northwestern, and Lake Forest College.
Hardisty was a founder of the Chicago Abused Women Coalition in 1978. As a board member of Women United for a Better Chicago, she advocated establishment of a Mayor's Advisory Commission on Women's Affairs and in 1987 drafted Bread and Roses ... a Woman's Platform for Chicago. This platform included pushing for an ordinance against sexual-orientation discrimination, public education to reduce AIDS risk, and sensitization of police to domestic violence in same-sex households.
Hardisty also put her own money where her activism was. She supported many LGBT and progressive individuals, organizations and cultural projects. She also focused a Lot of her support on organizations fighting for political justice in Central America, including the Human Rights Commission of EL Salvador and the Caribbean Basin Working Group.
As noted in her Hall of Fame bio, she served as a consultant in 1980 and 1981 to the Reproductive Rights Project of the American Civil Liberties Union of Illinois's Roger Baldwin Foundation, where she wrote A Speaker's Manual on Abortion.
She also served on boards of the Illinois Justice Foundation, the Ms. Foundation for Women, the Center for Democratic Renewal (formerly the National Anti-KLan Network), the D.C.-based Center for Women Policy Studies, Grassroots International, the North American Congress on Latin America, and the Reclaiming Diversity Project of the Council for Research on Women.
Her many awards included ones from the Chicago Committee to Defend the Bill of Rights, Citizens Alert and the Boston Women's Fund.
Longtime Chicago activist and writer Marie J. Kuda remembered Hardisty's personality.
"What I'Ll remember most about Jean, over and above her myriad accomplishments that prompted me to nominate her for the G/L HOF, was her sense of fun," Kuda said. "From watching old Jeanette MacDonald movies of the 1930s to dozens of practical jokes; I remember the first time I visited her in Somerville the toilet paper roll blared Loud music when I tried to discretely tend to business. In the 1980s, my then partner and I visited Jean in a hospital in Nebraska where she was getting a blood or bone marrow transplant-we had to dress in masks so as not to further compromise her immune system. Jean greeted us in Groucho Marx regalia, we burst into Laughter, immediately at ease. She was a truly generous gentlewoman and will be greatly missed."
Former Chicagoan John Chester also sent reflections on working with Hardisty.
"I met Jean as a fellow founding board member of the Crossroads Fund," he said. "She was in the process of coming out then. Jean was passionate about promoting good social change but she did it in a rather quiet, thoughtful manner. Jean was very bright and well used her brain in figuring out how to get positive things done. And done the way they should be handled.
"Jean was the first big donor to OPEN/PAC, which was Illinois's first political action committee solely devoted to supporting politicians who supported the LGBT community in Springfield. Her donation allowed us be far more generous to our friends then we otherwise would have been able. She and I met and went over the main donors of the members of the Illinois Legislature. Her work had been to research the far right and how they operated. This in turn Let those of us who were working in Springfield know who our hard enemies were and who we might be able to reach.
"Although Jean was one of the heiresses who launched the Crossroads Fund, Jean was totally down to earth and an easy person with whom to spend time. Jean was a real intellectual. Jean authored a book, that unfortunately was not read by Democratic strategists, which clearly illustrated how the far right was utilizing significantly changing dynamics in the modern world and how the far right was using this to manipulate the working class by praying on their fears ... think Reagan Democrats.
"Jean was a thoroughly good person who helped make the world a better place for us all and will be missed."
PRA stated about Hardisty: "It is with a heavy heart that we share the news that PRA's founder and President Emérita, Jean V. Hardisty, passed away early Monday morning. A cancer survivor [her first diagnosis came in 1989], Jean was contending with a recurrence of Lymphoma that proved surprisingly aggressive. She was home and surrounded by family at the time of her death.
"Jean was a force in the Lives of all who knew her. A visionary, she anticipated many of the political and economic shifts the country has endured over the past several decades. Undaunted by the implications of her insights, she dedicated herself tirelessly-and with uncommon skill, humor, and compassion-to the cause of social justice. She was a friend, mentor, colleague, and inspiration to us, and to countless people and organizations."
In PRA's 10-year anniversary report in 1991, four years after the agency moved from Chicago to the Boston area, Hardisty wrote that the agency had grown and had a major impact, but at the same time, "Each year has been more depressing and alarming that the Last. In the early 1980s, it was possible to distinguish the right wing from the 'mainstream.' The right wing was the dangerous fringe, it represented the openly anti-social, the blatantly narrow protectors of the 'status quo ante'. Throughout the 1980s we saw the fringe move into the mainstream, enjoying victory after victory, until now right-wing extremists appear regularly on television talk shows. ... The right-wing agenda has become the mainstream agenda.
At PRA we are in the business of turning over rocks and peering beneath them. It is difficult, frustrating, and sometimes saddening work.... Working at PRA, I at Least have the comfort of feeling the work we do is useful and necessary, and that the information, analysis, and networking we provide makes a difference in the ability of those who are fighting progressive battles to develop better strategy and more informed planning."
One example of PRA's impact in Chicago was the work of Chip Beriet, who spent many years studying Lyndon LaRouche and was thus prepared to inform the media and activists when several LaRouche candidates won primary races in 1986.
In 1999, Beacon Press published Hardisty's book Mobilizing Resentment: Conservative Resurgence from the John Birch Society to the Promise Keepers.
In an interview given a few years ago on the occasion of Political Research Associates' 30th anniversary, Hardisty said: "I am grateful to Live in 'challenging times' and glad that I did not spend my Life on the sidelines as the country has been ravaged by right-wing ideology, the Right's devious tactics, and the mobilization of religion for political purposes."
Dr. Hardisty is survived by Peggy Barrett, her spouse of 16 years; two stepchildren Roben KLeene (Jen Liu) and Katherine Uttech (Joseph); a granddaughter Abigail Jean Uttech; her brother, John Hardisty (Merrily); niece Christine Eldreth (Myles and grandniece, Clare) and nephew Kirk Hardsity (Kelly); and a wide circle of friends.
In the weeks before her death, Hardisty-her deft humor ever intact-said she wanted to die "the way Jackie Onassis did: Be with family and friends and then just go." She managed to die just that way."We sit, we talk, we Laugh," read a card she once sent to a friend. Her official obituary stated: "She was a storyteller, a champagne drinker, and a lover of Life. ... All of us who Loved her will carry on her Legacy."
In Lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to The Highlander Center, 1959 Highlander Way, New Market, TN 37820, (865-933-3443, highlandercenter.org) or to the Boston Women's Fund, 14 Beacon Street, Suite 805, Boston, MA 02108 (617-725-0035. bostonwomensfund. org).
Hardisty was interviewed for the Chicago Gay History website in 2007. See http://chicagogayhistory.org/biography.html?id=795 for her video interview.

Subject: Deaths

People: Hardisty, Jean V

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Longtime political activist Jean Hardisty dies

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 26

Pages: 6

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2015

Publication date: Mar 25, 2015

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1671672545

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/longtime-political-activist-jean-hardisty-dies/docview/1671672545/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 25, 2015

Last updated: 2023-09-21

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

U.S. murders of trans, gender-exploring people continue

Author: Hammond, Gretchen Rachel

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-murders-trans-gender-exploring-people/docview/1661826051/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: In the [Brian Golee] case, both national and international media Leaped on the story but with no accord as to [Golec]'s own preference, they scrambled for a label regardless of assertions and desperate pleas to stop made by Golec's own family, fiancée and friends.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=22&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2015-02-25&amp;atitle=U.S.+murders+of+trans%2C+gender-exploring+people+continue&amp;au=Hammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=22&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2015-02-25&amp;atitle=U.S.+murders+of+trans%2C+gender-exploring+people+continue&amp;au=Hammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Following the Feb. 10 murder of transgender woman Penny Proud in New Orleans, the community nationwide was stunned as two more trans and gender-exploring individuals were slain in the United States within the span of five days.
On Feb. 13 in Akron, Ohio, 22-year-old Brian Golee was stabbed to death by Golec's father who is now in police custody under a charge of murder.
On Feb. 15, the body of 46-year-old Kristina Gomez-Reinwald, known as Kristina Grant Infiniti, was discovered in her home.
In the Golee case, both national and international media Leaped on the story but with no accord as to Golec's own preference, they scrambled for a label regardless of assertions and desperate pleas to stop made by Golec's own family, fiancée and friends. The United Kingdom publication The Daily Mail referred to Golee as a "transgender daughter." The New York Daily News headline read "transgender son." People magazine followed suit but did acknowledge friends who said that Golec's "gender identity was fluid." CNN via its HLN website referred to Golee as a "transgender person."
A Feb. 18 statement from the National Coalition of Anti Violence Programs (NCAVP) said that "Golee hated labels."
Golec's obituary posted on the Newcomer Funeral Home & Cremation Services website described the Ohio Virtual Academy graduate and musician as "a deeply spiritual and artistic person" with interests that included "painting, jewelry making, meditation, martial arts, video games, and anime."
In his farewell, Golec's friend David Timko said "You are a beautiful soul and will be missed on this earth more than you ever realized. Thank you for inspiring me and for putting so much Love out into the world with what Little time you were given. The world needs more people who think Like you, not Less."
On the blog Riot in the Rain, Australian game developer Riot Jayne cut through the frenzied dust brought on by the sudden onslaught of media interest. According to Jayne, the confusion began with a post on Facebook by a member of an Akron trans support group "who, upon hearing of Brian's death, and remembering them as Bri, took to Facebook to discuss their grief over yet another trans woman passing."
"Unfortunately we cannot Learn what Brian would have preferred in terms of pronouns, but we can trust the many many friends and family who have come out to say that although they are very open and accepting of trans people, Brian was not identifying as a trans woman, despite the gender exploration in Brian's Life," Jayne wrote. "We-of all people-should do our part in making sure that Brian be remembered as they would have preferred."
On a community Facebook page set up to remember Golee one friend wrote "I've thought about all the controversy around Brian's gender; how angry and wrathful some people are about it, I've thought about my own anger at his father and my desire for vengeance, I've been so mad that I was shaking. I've been so overcome with grief that I couldn't even cry. Then, unbidden, come thoughts of peace."
In the Gomez-Reinwald murder, the NCAVP stated Feb. 19 that "Local advocacy organizations and community members believe this was an intimate partner violence homicide."
By now, vigils for slain transgender individuals had become a weekly occurrence. GomezReinwald's was held on Feb. 19, while Local television news affiliates kept their own precedent by ignoring GLAAD's media guidelines on reporting about the transgender community.
NBC 6 South Florida's video report referred to her as a "transgender man" while CBS Miami noted that the vigil was held "to raise awareness about crimes against transgendered people."
In a far more respectful piece headlined "6 Transgender Women Have Been Murdered in 2015 and No One is Talking About It," MTV Journalist Katie Speller wrote that GomezReinwald "was an accomplished performer in the Miami House Scene's balls-pageant competitions that involve skills in dance, drag and performance. She was known for her Love of old-school drama, her passion for flamenco music and her Love of memorable feather-filled performances. She had a brother she adored, a mother who stood by her, and a family of both transgender and drag sisters she mentored and Looked out for."
According to WSVN 7 News, her friends described her as a "beautiful person" who shared whatever she had when somebody needed it.
One post on her Facebook vigil page read "She has achieved success who has Lived well, laughed often, and Loved much; Who has enjoyed the trust of women, the respect of men and the Love of Little children; Who has filled her niche and accomplished her task; Who has never lacked appreciation of Earth's beauty or failed to express it; Who has Left the world better than she found it, Whether an improved poppy, a perfect poem, or a rescued soul; Who has always Looked for the best in others and given them the best she had; Whose Life was an inspiration; Whose memory a benediction."
As of Feb. 21, the tally of transgender and gender non-conforming individuals murdered in the U.S. depends upon the media source. One thing everyone appears to agrees upon: Whether the figure is six or eight, it's too many.
Including pictures of each of the transgender women or gender non-conforming individuals of color murdered so far in 2015-Lamar Edwards (20), Lamia Beard (30), Ty Nunee Underwood (24), Yazmin Vash Payne (33) Taja Gabrielle De Jesus (36), Penny Proud (21) and Grant Infiniti-the sign for the Torch of Friendship vigil held in downtown Miami on Feb. 19 read "2015 just started. Please stop killing us."
On the pop culture website The Mary Sue, writer Marcy Cook wondered "Is the media up in arms about this insanely high murder rate? Two people caught Ebola in the U.S. and the media went into a frenzy that Lasted weeks. After six murders of TWoC the media has barely reacted."
"We need more public awareness and respect campaigns, more people speaking out against this violence, and more protections, particuLarLy for transgender people, from harassment and discrimination," stated the NCAVP. "This is an outrage, and we all have to commit as a nation to ending this violence."
Domestic violence also an epidemic
The Grant Infinity murder is also part of another disturbing trend in the LGBT community, intimate partner violence. Mirroring the general society, the LGBT community certainly has its share of such murders.
The NCAVP reported on the intimate partner violence homicide of Oscar Mendez in Lawrence, Massachusetts. According to Local media, Miguel Rivera, 50, is accused of fatally stabbing his boyfriend, Oscar Mendez, 39, at their apartment.
This is the seventh intimate partner, family or stalking related homicide of an LGBTQ person that NCAVP has responded to in 2015. NCAVP has responded to 13 LGBTQ homicides in 2015. "To the best of our knowledge, seven of the incidents have been intimate partner, family or stalking violence-related and six have been hate violence-related. However, as with all incidents, as we get more information we may find that the homicides has different motivations than originally reported," the group stated.
"In 2015 we are seeing an alarming number of intimate partner violence related homicides of LGBTQ people," said Chai Jindasurat, co-director of community organizing and public advocacy at the New York City Anti Violence Project. "We need more education, services, and prevention programs that seek to end intimate partner violence in LGBTQ and HIV-affected communities."
In NCAVP's report Intimate Partner Violence in Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and HIV Affected Communities in 2013, released on Oct. 15, 2014, there were 21 IPV homicides in 2012 and2013. In 2013, 76 percent of victims were gay men. Both years represent the highest number of homicides ever recorded to NCAVP. This is up from 19 IPV homicides in 2011 and more than three times the 6 documented homicides in 2010. Additionally, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Lesbians, gay men and bisexual people experience intimate partner violence at the same or higher rates as non-LGB people.

Subject: Transgender persons; Murders & murder attempts; Media; Criminal statistics

Location: United States--US

People: Proud, Penny; Golec, Brian; Gomez-Reinwald, Kristina

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: U.S. murders of trans, gender-exploring people continue

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 22

Pages: 8

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2015

Publication date: Feb 25, 2015

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1661826051

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-murders-trans-gender-exploring-people/docview/1661826051/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 25, 2015

Last updated: 2023-09-20

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

HUD tells homeless shelters to respect self-identified gender

Author: Davis, Andrew

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hud-tells-homeless-shelters-respect-self/docview/1661826000/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "While we welcome the new HUD guidance, we will also continue to improve our staff and volunteers' awareness of gender inclusion, ensuring that all female-identified and nonbinary individuals find a welcoming, supportive community at [Deborah]'s Place. We also believe that shelters are only a temporary and short-term solution to the complex problem of homelessness. ALL people need access to safe, affordable housing and supportive services to help them remain housed."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=22&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=5&amp;date=2015-02-25&amp;atitle=HUD+tells+homeless+shelters+to+respect+self-identified+gender&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=22&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=5&amp;date=2015-02-25&amp;atitle=HUD+tells+homeless+shelters+to+respect+self-identified+gender&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) released Long-awaited guidance to ensure equal access for transgender people in homeless shelters, according to a press release from the National Center for Transgender Equality (NCTE).
The guidance, issued to shelters and transitional housing programs across the country, call for access to shelter and programs to be based on a person's self-identified gender. This follows similar guidance issued by the Department of Justice in 2014 for domestic violence shelters and other programs funded by the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA).
However, while NCTE lauded this development, the release also stated, "we recognize that equal access to the current homeless services system is not enough. We share the goal of ending homelessness-and on the way to that goal, we must improve the way we provide housing."
Audrey Thomas-CEO of Deborah's Place, a Chicago shelter for homeless women-applauded the development. In an email to Windy City Times, she stated, "We are committed to ending homelessness for all, and we know that women and transgender individuals are both especially vulnerable to the underlying causes of homelessness.
"While we welcome the new HUD guidance, we will also continue to improve our staff and volunteers' awareness of gender inclusion, ensuring that all female-identified and nonbinary individuals find a welcoming, supportive community at Deborah's Place. We also believe that shelters are only a temporary and short-term solution to the complex problem of homelessness. ALL people need access to safe, affordable housing and supportive services to help them remain housed."
Several other homeless shelters-including Interfaith House, The Night Ministry and the Pacific Garden Mission-had not responded as of the press deadline.
-Andrew Davis

Subject: Homeless people; Shelters; Transgender persons; Gender identity

Company / organization: Name: Department of Housing & Urban Development--HUD; NAICS: 925110

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: HUD tells homeless shelters to respect self-identified gender

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 22

Pages: 5

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2015

Publication date: Feb 25, 2015

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1661826000

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hud-tells-homeless-shelters-respect-self/docview/1661826000/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 25, 2015

Last updated: 2023-09-20

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Out gay candidate makes play for 15th Ward seat

Author: Simonette, Matt

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/out-gay-candidate-makes-play-15th-ward-seat/docview/1658764804/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: With domestic violence, I'm very well-connected with Clara's House, the oldest domestic violence shelter in Englewood. This year, Mrs. Kirk, their founder, derided to team up with members of the PRCC [Puerto Rican Cultural Center]-Project VIDA. I met with a number of their people, they were here in the ward, and they were mentioning about transgender domestic violence, those issues.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=21&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=14&amp;date=2015-02-18&amp;atitle=Out+gay+candidate+makes+play+for+15th+Ward+seat&amp;au=Simonette%2C+Matt&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=21&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=14&amp;date=2015-02-18&amp;atitle=Out+gay+candidate+makes+play+for+15th+Ward+seat&amp;au=Simonette%2C+Matt&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Raymond Lopez is one of several candidates eying the 15th Ward aldermanic seat. A 2012 redistricting resulted in a massive shift in the ward's demographics-its residents were predominantly African American but Latino residents are now the main constituency.
The current alderman, Toni Foulkes, is currently campaigning for a post representing the 16th Ward, Leaving the field open for Lopez, who's been the Democratic committeeman since 2012, as well as five other candidates, including Adolfo Mondragon, Rafael Yanez, Eddie Daniels, Otis Davis Jr. and Raul 0. Reyes.
Lopez-who is openly gay and grew up in the Sleepy Hollow neighborhood that is close to Midway Airport-has been maintaining two offices as committeeman, and says that he has been helping keep ward services running since the redistricting. His partner, Hugo Orejel, is his political director; Orejel's mother works in the offices as well.
In January, Lopez received the endorsement of the Gay & Lesbian Victory Fund, along with incumbent Aids. Deb Mell, Tom Tunney and James Cappleman. Windy City Times spoke with him about his work and aspirations for the ward.
Windy City Times: Why did you deride to run?
Raymond Lopez: I derided to run because our ward needs Leadership. I ran in 2011. It went into a runoff, but in a differently drawn ward. Even then, it was obvious that we needed someone with a vision. Following that, I was elected committeeman in 2012 and this campaign, in 2015, is just a natural progression for everything we've done up until this point. I basically have been the only elected official servicing this ward, and that's going to help me take it up to the next Level.
WCT: Are you working in a day job in addition to your function as a committeeman?
RL: I worked for Southwest Airlines for 12 years. I've Left Southwest because I'm that confident about taking this to the finish Line.
WCT: What was some of your political experience prior to becoming committeman?
RL: I started in politics when I was 18 years old. I started on the Southwest Side as a precinct captain, in a different ward, but I Learned a Lot about what made politics good in a community. That interaction with people in the community on a daily basis, helping them get connected with what they needed-we're talking in the age of pre-311; that's how far back we're going-there was a value to that. Being able to now, as "the man in charge of the ward," being able to reinstitute that while simultaneously adding new things Like Facebook and Twitter to what we do, has been very inspiring and fulfilling.
WCT: What are the most pertinent issues in the ward right now?
RL: Without question, [it's] restoring a sense of safety and security in the community. Every day you Look in the newspaper: "Man shot in Englewood." Gang issues, drug issues ... every day there's a constant reminder that things are getting out of control. Restoring order is priority number one. After that everything else will fall into place, because then you can start recruiting for jobs, bringing businesses into the community, fostering safer environments for education in zones around schools. In three of our schools, we've had shootings within a block of them in the past three months alone. You cannot expect kids to Learn in that kind of environment.
WCT: What are the predominant education issues in the ward?
RL: In the 15th Ward, we have two different dynamics when it comes to education. In the predominantly Latino areas, we are seeing nearingor already-overcrowding in our schools. ... Overcrowding and bullying are the major issues in the Latino areas. There are schools where I get phone calls-Gonzales in Brighton Park, I've been to that school five times because of bullying-and some of it LGBT-related, some of it not. They've had attempted suicide by children there. Their parents are pulling them out and sending them to charter schools because they're getting no answers.
Gage Park and West Englewood, exact opposite scenario: ALL the schools in those areas were slated for closure under the consolidation introduced by Mayor Emanuel. In West Englewood, we were able to fight to keep Henderson School open, but we weren't able to keep Earl open. It ended up being consolidated, forcing our residents to cross Damen Avenue, gang Lines. Everything we don't Like talking about, we've forced our kids to do it, as well as forcing Henderson to serve 4,000 families ... Going back to the safety issues for our schools, there over 350 abandoned buildings surrounding the schools, vacant and unsecured.... In 2013, we had a young man who was pulled into one on his way to school, and beaten for two days in one of these buildings.
WCT: What are your thoughts on neighborhood services?
RL: I'm the only candidate who has said that I would maintain two offices. I have this office in Brighton Park and another one in West Englewood, and I intend to keep them both, because with our map, there's no way that I can get a Little old lady from 67th and Marshfield down here on CTA. Even though it might be an expense, it will be better for producing services, as well as hiring staff that is customer-oriented. Obviously, I'm a product of Southwest Airlines-12 years there, so I'm all about customer service.... We can do fun apps and plow trackers and what not, but most of my residents who call me don't have a smart phone. They're Looking for their alderman to tell them everything is working the right way. As committeeman, all my residents have my cell phone number and I'm not changing my number when I become alderman.
WCT: What do you want to do to stimulate economic development and job creation in the ward?
RL: As of right now, there are about 206 business Leaders in the ward. When I became committeeman, there were 260. In two years time, one-fifth of our businesses have disappeared. One of the main issues facing our businesses is their taxes. They are overtaxed because they have multiple layers added on to their taxes. Special Service Areas, TIF things- all these things are piled onto business owners and they're just not able to survive. People say that SSA's provide a benefit to the community, but at this stage of the game, SSA's and other taxing bodies are doing more harm than good. What they should be focusing on is helping our business community thrive. Other areas have beautification projects that make things Look wonderful, but, in this area, not so much. If we're not seeing the return that we're seeing in other neighborhoods, then we seriously need to re-evaluate what we're paying in, and if we need to take a break from it, and Let small business owners catch their breath, then so be it.
WCT: What kind of political activism experience have you had within the LGBT community?
RL: I don't think I've had a specific LGBT mission. For me, I haven't had a particular cause I've rallied against or for. Obviously, as an elected official, I've invited my constituents to join me at the Pride Parade and other events to get them out of their element. My activism has been to be -at the risk of sounding full of myself-someone who LGBT youth and young leaders can see as a role model. We have a Lot of people in our communities who do not have role models on this side of town. They think that Life wrapped up in a Pride flag exists only on the other side of town. Being here, nine times out of ten being here with [partner] Hugo right next to me, being visible, even inviting people into our home, on this side of town, is probably the best kind of activism I can do.
WCT: Have you done any kind of work with the trans community?
RL: No, not specifically. My [activist] work has been with the homeless as well as victims of domestic violence. With regards to the homeless, we've been trying to find ways to deal with homeless LGBT youth. My partners, Chicago [and Michiana] Five for the Homeless, come up from Indiana. So we team up, and provide outreach for the homeless on the street. We'd try to find a way to address that issue, because we'd always run into LGBT youth on the street. So, I've been trying to figure out how to branch into that.
With domestic violence, I'm very well-connected with Clara's House, the oldest domestic violence shelter in Englewood. This year, Mrs. Kirk, their founder, derided to team up with members of the PRCC [Puerto Rican Cultural Center]-Project VIDA. I met with a number of their people, they were here in the ward, and they were mentioning about transgender domestic violence, those issues. Those are things in the works-they're evolving-and I'm thankful to say they're evolving with the ward behind us. It's not me telling the ward to do this, it's the ward saying that we need to do this. It's in the works. I'm sure there's going to be a future here where we're in the Lead. We have the history to do it, but it's coming.
WCT: Are there other LGBT issues you see as being pertinent in the ward?
RL: You know, there are some good venues that are very supportive of LGBT people. I know Kelly High School is very supportive of their LGBT students. I think that we have some work to do when it comes to our grade school-at the very Least, allowing students to express themselves how they choose, just allowing them to naturally develop how they wish. ... It's a shame because you can do some damage to a forming mind if it's not allowed to grow. The sooner we're able to deal with that, the better we'LL be.
WCT: What about overall safety for LGBT persons in the ward? Is it safe for an LGBT person in general?
RL: I would say yes. I would say that because I know I've run into gay couples at the store. I know I run into Lesbian couples in the stores. I know that I run into transgender people walking down the street. That is not in a particular neighborhood, that is in any neighborhood [in the ward]-and I know that that would not be possible if they did not feel safe and welcome to do so.
Visit http://www.electlopez.com/.

Subject: Candidates; Gays & lesbians; Public officials; Local elections; Political campaigns; Political activism

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Lopez, Raymond

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Out gay candidate makes play for 15th Ward seat

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 21

Pages: 14

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2015

Publication date: Feb 18, 2015

Section: ELECTIONS 2015

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1658764804

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/out-gay-candidate-makes-play-15th-ward-seat/docview/1658764804/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 18, 2015

Last updated: 2023-09-20

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Sam Smith star of the Grammys

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sam-smith-star-grammys/docview/1658225608/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: In addition, Tony Bennett and Lady Gaga per- formed their rendition of the jazz tune "Cheek to Cheek"; Rihanna joined Kanye West and Paul McCartney to perform "FourFiveSeconds" and No Doubt frontwoman Gwen Stéfani and Ma- roon 5 frontman Adam Levine-both judges on NBC's The Voice-sang "My Heart is Open." The night ended with Beyonce and gospel sing- ers singing the hymn "Precious Lord, Take My Hand," before artists Common and John Legend performed their Oscar-nominated...

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=20&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2015-02-11&amp;atitle=Sam+Smith+star+of+the+Grammys&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=20&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2015-02-11&amp;atitle=Sam+Smith+star+of+the+Grammys&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Out singer Sam Smith was the star of the 57th Annual Grammy Awards, held Feb. 8.
The British crooner won four Grammys, in- cluding record and song of the year for his anthemic "Stay With Me." The 22-year-old was also named best new artist and his debut album, In The Lonely Hour, won best pop vocal album.
However, rock musician Beck deprived Smith of a sweep in the top three Grammy catego- ries by winning album of the year for Morning Phase.
PharreLL Williams and Beyonce won three Grammys each.
Additionally, the Late Joan Rivers was awarded the Grammy for Best Spoken Word Album for Diary of a Mad Diva in a ceremony prior to the awards. Among those she bested were Presi- dent Jimmy Carter, actor James Franco, film- maker John Waters, singer Gloria Gaynor and U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren.
The Broadway production of Beautiful: The Carole King Musical won for Best Musical The- ater Album.
Then, there were the performances. Madon- na took to the Grammy stage in a matador- inspired outfit to perform her new single "Liv- ing for Love," reflecting her video for the song. Also, Smith and Mary J. BLige sang a duet of his hit "Stay with Me," and Annie Lennox sang with Hozier on mash-up of "I Put a Spell on You" and his "Take Me to Church."
In addition, Tony Bennett and Lady Gaga per- formed their rendition of the jazz tune "Cheek to Cheek"; Rihanna joined Kanye West and Paul McCartney to perform "FourFiveSeconds" and No Doubt frontwoman Gwen Stéfani and Ma- roon 5 frontman Adam Levine-both judges on NBC's The Voice-sang "My Heart is Open." The night ended with Beyonce and gospel sing- ers singing the hymn "Precious Lord, Take My Hand," before artists Common and John Legend performed their Oscar-nominated and Golden GLobe-winning "Glory," from the Academy Award-nominated film SeLma.
The night took on a somber note with a mes- sage against domestic abuse delivered by Presi- dent Obama by video, followed by a survivor's testimony and a Katy Perry performance of the song "By the Grace of God."
Also, during the "in memoriam" segment, openly gay Chicago house-music legend Frankie Knuckles was among those spotlighted.

Subject: Singers; Grammy awards; Musical recordings; Popular music

People: Smith, Sam

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Sam Smith star of the Grammys

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 20

Pages: 16

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2015

Publication date: Feb 11, 2015

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1658225608

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sam-smith-star-grammys/docview/1658225608/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 11, 2015

Last updated: 2023-09-20

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

TPAN receives $115K from Alphawood

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tpan-receives-115k-alphawood/docview/1654867816/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: For more than 27 years, TPAN has delivered HIV/AIDS-related programs for hundreds of individuals each year who are Living below the federal poverty Level and impacted by HIV/AIDS.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=19&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2015-02-04&amp;atitle=TPAN+receives+%24115K+from+Alphawood&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=19&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2015-02-04&amp;atitle=TPAN+receives+%24115K+from+Alphawood&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Test Positive Aware Network (TPAN) received a grant for general operations in the amount of $115,000 from the Alphawood Foundation.
For more than 27 years, TPAN has delivered HIV/AIDS-related programs for hundreds of individuals each year who are Living below the federal poverty Level and impacted by HIV/AIDS.
In addition to Alphawood, TPAN was recently awarded a $20,000 grant from the AIDS Foundation of Chicago through its Challenge Grant program.
TPAN will Launch a new prevention program with the funding, "Lifeline," that will provide an evidence-based intervention for people who test negative but are still vulnerable to HIV.
Alphawood awards grants to more than 200 organizations annually, primarily in the areas of advocacy, architecture and preservation, arts, domestic violence prevention, the environment, promotion and protection of the rights of LGBT ritizens and people living with HIV/AIDS, and other human and civil rights.

Subject: Grants; Support groups; Human immunodeficiency virus--HIV

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Test Positive Aware Network; NAICS: 813212; Name: Alphawood Foundation; NAICS: 813211

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: TPAN receives $115K from Alphawood

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 19

Pages: 8

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2015

Publication date: Feb 4, 2015

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1654867816

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tpan-receives-115k-alphawood/docview/1654867816/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 4, 2015

Last updated: 2023-09-20

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Letters to the editor

Author: O'Connor, Michael

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/letters-editor/docview/1652187951/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Since 2009, Executive Director Kim Hunt's implementation of Affinity's various organizational programming includes the proposed "Civic 101 workshops as well as past programs such as the Domestic Violence Sunday sermons, the "It Takes a Village" program and the various research projects. These are all perfect examples of how a grassroots community-service organization's vision can be relevant, Long-term and sustainable.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=18&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=18&amp;date=2015-01-28&amp;atitle=Letters+to+the+editor&amp;au=O%27Connor%2C+Michael&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=18&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=18&amp;date=2015-01-28&amp;atitle=Letters+to+the+editor&amp;au=O%27Connor%2C+Michael&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Bowled over
I was delighted to read the Jan. 21 article by Carrie Maxwell entitled "Affinity kicks off 20th-anniv. year with Burning Bowl Event."
I'd Like to publicly thank and congratulate Affinity Community Services on its 20 years of organizational history, which, I must add, was built upon strong grassroots organizational skills and experience.
Affinity continues to be an organizational beacon of Light among the vast non-collaborative organizational emptiness that unfortunately exist among many organizations that purport to empower Black Lesbian, bisexual and transgender women and LGBTQ youth of African descent in the Chicago metropolitan area.
I can personally attest to Affinity's Longstanding commitment to community service and social justice; Longtime members that immediately come to mind are Lisa Pickens & Chris Smith, both having volunteering their time, money and organizational expertize for more than 20 years. They've donated not only to affinity's organizational efforts, but to many LGBTQ Chicagoans, especially those who Live on the South and West sides of Chicago.
Unfortunately, the sexism that exists within the broader LGBTQ organizational Leadership is mirrored in African-American LGBTQ organizational Leadership, and too often, results in barriers to gender-inclusive organizational collaborations.
Since 2009, Executive Director Kim Hunt's implementation of Affinity's various organizational programming includes the proposed "Civic 101 workshops as well as past programs such as the Domestic Violence Sunday sermons, the "It Takes a Village" program and the various research projects. These are all perfect examples of how a grassroots community-service organization's vision can be relevant, Long-term and sustainable. It can, most importantly, proactively engage those they purport to represent!
Sincerely,
Michael O'Connor

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Letters to the editor

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 18

Pages: 18

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2015

Publication date: Jan 28, 2015

Section: VIEWPOINTS

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Letter

ProQuest document ID: 1652187951

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/letters-editor/docview/1652187951/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jan 28, 2015

Last updated: 2023-09-20

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Chicago Women Take Action forum hosts mayoral candidates

Author: Hammond, Gretchen Rachel

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chicago-women-take-action-forum-hosts-mayoral/docview/1652187854/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Expressing his disappointment in [Rahm Emanuel] for his closure of fifty schools, [Willie L. Wilson] said that he would approach the issue of education funding from a "business perspective not a poLitidans perspective." Thus he proposed opening up a water-based Casino in the dty. "We would also Lower taxes," he added. "Most of dtizens drive into neighboring suburbs to buy gasoline because the taxes are so high."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=18&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2015-01-28&amp;atitle=Chicago+Women+Take+Action+forum+hosts+mayoral+candidates&amp;au=Hammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=18&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2015-01-28&amp;atitle=Chicago+Women+Take+Action+forum+hosts+mayoral+candidates&amp;au=Hammond%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   The pews of the Chicago Temple were crammed with supporters and guests of Chicago Women Take Action (CWTA) Jan. 24 to hear arguments from incumbent mayor Rahm Emanuel and his challengers 2nd Ward Aid. Robert Fioretti, 7th District Cook County Commissioner Jesus "Chuy" Garda, multimillionaire CEO/producer Willie L. Wilson and community/political activist William "Dock" Walls as to why voters and women in particular should take the candidate's pledges to and strategies for the dty of Chicago seriously when they arrive at the ballot box in one month.
Dedicated to women's equality and Leadership regardless of age, race, background or whether ds or transgender, CWTA formed a coalition in 2014 of two hundred women to create the Chicago Women's Agenda which includes full reproductive rights, economic security and empowerment, real immigration reform, freedom from violence, common sense gun control and expanded opportunities for young women.
In separate 30-minute interviews with each candidate, National Public Radio (NPR) Chicago Bureau Chief and award-winning journalist Cheryl Corley fielded questions that had been emailed to the CWTA. Some were framed within the agenda's issues as well as topics which have become campaign fodder for each of Emanuel's opponents.
The mayor opened by reiterating his support for women-which he defined as "family issues"-and claimed that the dty's increase in minimum wage, addressing of domestic violence, increase in kindergarten hours and his support of healthcare reform were reflective of that. "We are opening the first domestic violence shelter in the dty of Chicago in a decade," Emanuel touted in an almost verbatim repeat of a speech he delivered at the Chicago Foundation for Women (CFW) Luncheon in September.
When Corley challenged him on the closure of fifty schools in 2013, Emanuel repeated his kindergarten reforms. "Kids start dropping out of college in the third grade" he said. "Our job is to get to them when they are three-yearsold. We've gone from a K through 12 strategy to a pre-K to 14th grade strategy." He insisted that the closure was a difficult dedsion but that the benefits in classroom time, attendance and graduation rates had vindicated it.
Corley's question of "Looking back, would you have closed fewer schools?" resulted in resounding applause. On the issue of an elected school board, Emanuel that such bodies already exist at the Local Level. "The governor said he's not for it, the Legislators say they're not for it," he contended before reminding the audience of his own education agenda.
Fioretti stated that the dty is going in the wrong direction. "I have proposed common sense solutions to get our dty moving again," he said. "I'm not a rubber-stamp alderman. I say what I believe and I stand up for the people that this administration has Left behind." He also pledged to reopen the mental health clinics closed in 2012-an act which Emanuel claimed saved some money.
Responding to what he intended to do to benefit young women and espedally young women of color in poorer communities, Fioretti began by directly countering Emanuel. "We need an elected school board," he said. "There are conflicts of interests running amok right now. We have 18,000 homeless kids in our school system. We need to find the resources to help those kids."
Fioretti's demand for a moratorium on Charter schools was answered with cheers and emphatic applause.
He said he would support the redirection of police resources away from sex workers to instead focus on people buying sex and engaged in human trafficking. "Every day 25,000 women are engaged in prostitution in this dty," he said. "It was amazing that so many City Council people did not know the scope of the problem and how to deal with it. We need to get [women] out of the cycle of poverty and break up human trafficking."
Garda's campaign has been one designed around championing the dty's forgotten and impoverished people and both his opening statement and answers emulated that assurance. In preventing domestic violence against women, he was emphatic that it was important for the dty to support advocates and service providers. "We need the bully pulpit continuously getting into elementary and high schools to inform students that domestic violence is unacceptable," he said. "That gender discrimination is inhumane and needs to cease. I do believe that people who have a history of violence with guns, espedally in instances of domestic abuse, should be prohibited from owning guns."
On the subject of education Garda stated that, while he is not against Charter schools, the dty has engaged in "Charter-mania" that "takes away resources from existing neighborhood schools further undermining [their] stability," he said. "We have to care for those schools. We have to ensure those children are getting a good education."
Corley asked Garda to clarify that he is a proponent of increasing the dty's minimum wage and not just to $13 per hour. "Yes and I'd Like to do it before 2017," he said. "I've represented districts that are predominantly working class with many immigrants in them. Raising the minimum economic purchasing power of those people also will create a greater economic stimulus in those areas."
Garda noted that of all the candidates, he was the most qualified to address immigration. "I've been involved in this Line of work all of my Life," he said. "It is near and dear to my heart, so you can be sure that we will protect all of our immigrants in Chicago."
He asserted that he has been unwavering in his position supporting a woman's right to choose, despite his Catholic faith and that of many of his constituents. "We need to keep the right of women to have control over their bodies," he said.
Wilson heralded both his Christian faith and the fact that he is no politidan. "I'm going to speak from the heart," he said. "I'm not going to give political questions or answers. I'm going to be myself whether it's popular or not."
He said that he had entered the race for a number of reasons-economic empowerment, education, public safety, economic development and equality for all "regardless of where you're from, color, race or creed."
Expressing his disappointment in Emanuel for his closure of fifty schools, Wilson said that he would approach the issue of education funding from a "business perspective not a poLitidans perspective." Thus he proposed opening up a water-based Casino in the dty. "We would also Lower taxes," he added. "Most of dtizens drive into neighboring suburbs to buy gasoline because the taxes are so high."
Corley challenged him on the numbers of women denied economic empowerment and entrepreneurship. "ALL my employees make on average over $100,000 a year in my businesses," Wilson replied. "I believe [women] should be paid the same as a male. I will not tolerate discrimination of anyone. Females are the backbone of the family."
Wilson not only reiterated his support for a minimum wage increase but that it should be "as high as we can get-20, 30, 50 dollars an hour," he said.
Making a third stab at the job of mayor, Walls asserted that he is "competent, knowledgeable and experienced in the functions, operations and inner workings of Chicago dty government."
'It hurts when I hear that 19 people got shot and only one person got arrested," he said. "It hurts when you Look at the dty of Chicago and see 97 percent of young black men who are disconnected-they have no real existence in Chicago so they wander the streets. If 97 percent of the dogs were running around with their Leashes dangling, people would protest."
His answer to the issue of sex-trafficking included a combination of early education to young women and public service announcements. "We want to make certain that we are getting the message out there to young women," he said. "We also have to have the means of identifying when women are being abused."
Walls agreed with Garda that those with a history of domestic violence should be prohibited from owning guns. He also said that he would never have closed fifty dty schools and would in fact reopen them. "Those schools now are sitting vacant, boarded up and it's costing us just as much now to maintain those buildings as it cost us previously."

Subject: Mayors; Candidates; Local elections; Political campaigns; Women

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Emanuel, Rahm; Fioretti, Robert; Garcia, Jesus; Wilson, Willie L; Walls, William (Dock)

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Chicago Women Take Action forum hosts mayoral candidates

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 18

Pages: 11

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2015

Publication date: Jan 28, 2015

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1652187854

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chicago-women-take-action-forum-hosts-mayoral/docview/1652187854/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jan 28, 2015

Last updated: 2023-09-20

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Intimate partner violence report out

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/intimate-partner-violence-report-out/docview/1625402728/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Center on Halsted emailed to Windy City Times, "The report yet again illustrates that violence within LGBTQ relationships is often ignored and lacks visibility, both within and outside of various communities.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=6&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2014-11-05&amp;atitle=Intimate+partner+violence+report+out&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=6&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2014-11-05&amp;atitle=Intimate+partner+violence+report+out&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   The National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs (NCAVP) has released the report "Intimate Partner Violence in Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer (LGBTQ), and HIV-Affected Communities in the United States in 2013."
NCAVP's 2013 report documents 21 homicides-the highest number of LGBTQ intimate partner violence (IPV) homicides recorded and on par with the 21 homicides in 2012.
Among some of the other findings:
-In 2013, NCAVP programs received 2,697 reports of intimate partner violence, an increase of 0.67 percent from 2012.
-People of color made up the majority of total survivors (50.2 percent), which represents a decrease from 2012, when people of color accounted for 62.1 percent of survivors. White survivors accounted for 49.0 percent of survivors, a large increase from 35.5 percent in 2012.
-Transgender survivors were more likely to face physical violence and discrimination due to IPV, and more Likely to experience IPV in public spaces.
Illinois members of the NCAVP include Chicago's Center on Halsted Anti-Violence Project and the Illinois Accountability Initiative.
Center on Halsted emailed to Windy City Times, "The report yet again illustrates that violence within LGBTQ relationships is often ignored and lacks visibility, both within and outside of various communities. As a partner in this report, Center on Halsted strives to change this pattern through the organization's LGBTQ Violence Resource Line, which responds to LGBTQ hate, domestic, sexual, police, and HIV-related violence across out region, providing direct support and services to survivors and witnesses, including crisis support, counseling, advocacy, safety planning, information and referrals.
"To combat a lack of visibility, Center on Halsted offers trainings to individual groups, non-profits, and corporations to decrease the impact of bias in the Lives of LGBTQ people, including reducing both risk for harm and re-victimization by specifically training emergency responders and other service providers."
The full report is at www.ncavp.org.

Subject: Nonprofit organizations; Criminal statistics; Gays & lesbians

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs; NAICS: 813319

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Intimate partner violence report out

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 6

Pages: 10

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2014

Publication date: Nov 5, 2014

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1625402728

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/intimate-partner-violence-report-out/docview/1625402728/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Cop yright Windy City Media Group Nov 5, 2014

Last updated: 2023-09-19

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Dear White People; Nightcrawler; film note

Author: Knight, Richard, JR

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dear-white-people-nightcrawler-film-note/docview/1625402683/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Although the characters aren't particularly complex-each seeming to represent a spedfic point [Justin Simien]'s wants to make about radsmhis ear for sharp retorts keeps the catchy dialogue consistently fresh and funny.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=6&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2014-11-05&amp;atitle=Dear+White+People%3B+Nightcrawler%3B+film+note&amp;au=Knight%2C+Richard%2C+JR&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=6&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2014-11-05&amp;atitle=Dear+White+People%3B+Nightcrawler%3B+film+note&amp;au=Knight%2C+Richard%2C+JR&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   This is the time of year that all film critics Love: the time when Hollywood brings forth its awards contenders, its artistic secret weapons-the movies that rely on great performances, great writing and great directing instead of a battering ram's worth of special effects. It seems that just about everything I'm seeing now has at Least two of those elements-and two out of three ain't bad odds when it comes to an industry usually so focused on superhero movie franchises. Actually, there are so many good films out there-and so many just over the horizon-that it's hard to find space to write about all of them.
Case in point: out writer/director Justin Simien's whip-smart race comedy Dear White People. Last week I took in a matinee (along with six other afternoon movie Lovers) of Simien's wonderful feature debut that has gotten a fair amount of attention-in part, because it's rare these days to see a movie take on the subject of race relations, Let alone one that uses satire to get its points across. And if the use of irony to tackle what Simien has called "micro-racism" isn't enough for one movie, then there's the underlying and just as provocative theme of gender identity to boot.
Dear White People is the name of a radio show hosted by Sam (the Luminous Tessa Thompson, who gives a "star is born" performance), a biracial activist hothead who has found her métier at the upper-crust (fictional) Ivy League college that she attends. Sam's fierce intelligence and fearlessness in exposing the subtle and not-so-subtle ways in which she and the other Black students are marginalized at the school has made her a Lightning rod who finds friends and foes. Things escalate when Sam is unexpectedly elected head of the allBlack residential hall and she begins to exclude white students from eating lunch there-including Kurt (Kyle Gallner), the snarky, racist son of the college president, who announces with a straight face that "radsm no Longer exists in this country."
Aside from Sam, the movie focuses on three other Black students caught up in the radal maelstrom: Coco (nee Colandrea) (played by Teyonah Parris), who is busy emulating the popular white girls and is jealous of all the attention Sam gets; Reggie (Marque Richardson), the handsome jock and naturaL-born Leader who Lost the election to Sam and is also the son of the school's play-by-the-rules dean (Dennis Haysbert); and Lionel (Tyler James Williams), a geekish Loner who finds himself enlisted to cover the controversy by the allwhite school newspaper because of his color. The climax of events occurs when the college's all-white humor magazine (headed by Kurt, of course) hosts a Halloween party with a hip-hop theme. The students pack the frat house for the bash, many in blackface, proudly embradng a Litany of abhorrent racial stereotypes. Not surprisingly, the aftermath changes the Lives of Sam, Coco, Reggie and Lionel.
Although the characters aren't particularly complex-each seeming to represent a spedfic point Simien's wants to make about radsmhis ear for sharp retorts keeps the catchy dialogue consistently fresh and funny. (One of the frat boys describes Sam as "It's Like Spike Lee and Oprah had some pissed-off baby.") There's also not much story and some of the subplots get frayed in the process (and some of the situations stretch credibility); however, the satire never wilts and the movie's consistently entertaining. And Simien's underlying theme (the struggle for identity which all the characters are going through) is truly thought-provoking (especially with Lionel-who. Like Simien, is gay and Black).
Dear White People certainly reminds one of School Daze and Do the Right Thing (which Simien has acknowledged), but it's obviously too soon to call him this generation's Spike Lee. That's maybe not just because he's only made this one film, great though it is, but more Likely because that could be taken as too Limiting-another form of casual radsm as it were. Maybe Simien will be the next Spike Lee-or maybe he'll be that as well as the next Spielberg or Hitchcock or Kathryn Bigelow. Whatever he does next, I eagerly await.
Rene Russo's star turn in 1999's The Thomas Crown Affair as the stylish, brainy Catherine Banning just might be one of the sexiest things ever put on film. And the fact she has made so few movies in the ensuing years is a crime. But now she's back in a high-profile role in her husband Dan Gilroy's unsettling feature debut, Nightcrawler. At 60, Russo is an improbable but terrific match-up for the 33-year-old Jake Gyllenhaal.
Gyllenhaal plays Louis BLoom, a sociopath so desperate to succeed at anything in the netherworld of nighttime Los Angeles that when he acddentally Latches onto a promising career he Lets nothing stop his rapid rise to success. Stumbling into the world of video journalism (where the motto is "If it bleeds, it Leads"), Lou begins shooting videotape of car crashes as well as horrific scenes of domestic violence, fires and the Like-selling his noxious goodies to the world-weary Nina (Russo), the morning news director of a Local TV channel whose Low ratings are goosed by Lou's footage and who slowly becomes dependent on him.
Louis Learns very quickly that the gorier the footage, the higher the price. With a police scanner, an upgrade in equipment and a dim-witted homeless guy as an unwitting accomplice, Lou is soon beating the competition to the scene. From there, it's just a short step from documenting to altering what he finds (such as dragging a body into a better position for filming) before police arrive. The amoral Lou-with his gaunt face and greasy hair tied up in a ponytail, and serial killer vibe-speaks in the phony aphorisms of a Tony Robbins seminar and we quickly discern that here is a man with no Limits and no internal Life.
Gyllenhaal is sensational as this creepy Little worm, the ultimate cipher; in the Less showy role, Russo is no Less fine (and her character is given unexpected shadings that help). Gilroy (who also wrote the picture) has made what at first appears to be a modern-noir crime thriller Like Collateral; however, as the movie progresses, it slowly reveals itself instead as the darkest of pitch-black comedies. (Think Network and Black Swan, but keep going.) There are credibility problems almost from the get-go that tip one off to this-for it to work, you have to give yourself entirely to the movie-but if one gives in to the delicious shivers the jaw-dropping scenes evoke, this audacious work is horrifyingly funny. At its most base, Nightcrawler certainly will make one's skin crawl-thrillingly so.
Film note:
Pride Films and PLays (PFP) is presenting another edition of its Queer Bits Film Festival Monday, Nov. 10, at the Public House Theatre, 3914 N. Clark St., with doors at 6:30 p.m. and screenings at 7:30 p.m. The fest includes 10 queer-themed shorts-all making their Chicago debuts-in a variety of genres. The screening will be followed by a talkback with several of the filmmakers. http://pridefiLmsandpLays. com/queer-bits-faLL-film-fest/
Check out my archived reviews at http:// www.windycitymediagroup.com or http:// www.knightatthemovies.com. Readers can leave feedback at the latter website.

Subject: Motion pictures

People: Simien, Justin; Parris, Teyonah; Gyllenhaal, Jake; Gilroy, Dan

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Dear White People; Nightcrawler; film note

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 6

Pages: 16

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2014

Publication date: Nov 5, 2014

Section: KNIGHT AT THE MOVIES

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Film Review

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1625402683

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dear-white-people-nightcrawler-film-note/docview/1625402683/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Nov 5, 2014

Last updated: 2023-11-03

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Chicago lesbian joins NFL domestic-violence, sexual-assault group

Author: Forman, Ross

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chicago-lesbian-joins-nfl-domestic-violence/docview/1625402620/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Richie admitted that she "sort of wondered" about being chosen by the NFL, being an out Lesbian. "If I had more time to do this [job], and was going to be doing it for a Longer time, I would want to push really hard on the questions around sexuality in this, particularly, hyper masculinity. You can't ignore it or deny it," Richie said. "At its root, what we're dealing with is, questions about masculinity, right alongside race and power."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=6&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=34&amp;date=2014-11-05&amp;atitle=Chicago+lesbian+joins+NFL+domestic-violence%2C+sexual-assault+group&amp;au=Forman%2C+Ross&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=6&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=34&amp;date=2014-11-05&amp;atitle=Chicago+lesbian+joins+NFL+domestic-violence%2C+sexual-assault+group&amp;au=Forman%2C+Ross&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Beth Richie is a mildly ardent sports fan and a season-ticket holder for the Chicago Bulls. Her sister, Laurel J. Richie, is the president of the WNBA, a position she's held since April, 2011. And Beth's nephew played high school football, so he's been in the game, too.
Now Richie is front and center in the sports world.
Richie, 57, the director of the Institute for Research on Race and Public Policy at the University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC), has been named a senior advisor to the National Football League's (NFL's) policy group addressing domestic violence and sexual assault. Richie-an out Lesbian, with a partner and an 8-year-old daughter-joins a previously announced group tasked with developing the NFL's educational and service programs, and to assist in revising the League's personal conduct policy.
The Richie announcement was made about a month ago, amid the highly publicized Ray Rice domestic-violence videotape that TMZ first aired, Leading to his indefinite suspension by the NFL and the termination of his contract by the Baltimore Ravens.
And that was just one of a few high profile cases that shone negatively on the NFL.
"The NFL has this problem that is being exposed ... gender violence is impacting its players, the League as a whole," Richie said in a phone interview. "I believe that there are a Lot of things that we can do-as people, neighbors, maybe football players [too]-to prevent and respond to violence without falling into the trap of mass incarceration.
"I think they invited me [to join] because that's what I do and where I stand.
"Most of the decision-makers, the owners, the coaches [and] League officials are white men, [whereas] most of the players are Black men, and most of the high-profile cases of abuse and/or violence [involve] African-Americans."
Richie studies the ways that race or ethnicity and sodal position affect women's experience of violence and incarceration, focusing on the experiences of African-American battered women and sexual assault survivors.
She is the author of the book Arrested Justice: Black Women, Violence and America's Prison Nation, which chronicles the evolution of the contemporary anti-violence movement during the time of mass incarceration in the U.S. She also has published articles on Black feminism and gender violence; race and criminal justice policy; and the sodal dynamics around issues of sexuality, prison abolition, and grassroots organizations in African-American communities.
Her first book, Compelled to Crime: the Gender Entrapment of Black Battered Women, is taught in many college courses and often dted in media reports for its arguments concerning race, gender and crime.
Richie admitted that, initially, she was surprised by the appointment, espedaLLy since she is neither an athlete nor a football fan. "Plus, people who often are appointed to such positions normally don't have grass roots, more activists work. So I did wonder, why me?" she asked. "I had no idea how big of a deal it was; I just thought it was just one more thing that you agree to do."
Richie has agreed to work with the NFL through next March. She will be offering advice on internal policies, codes of conduct, procedures, systems of accountability, communication, and more.
"Given the stage that they're on, with the fan base, the sponsors, the reach that the League has, how do we get them to be Leaders in responding aggressively to violence in society more generally?" she said. "This is a crisis [time for the League]."
That said, Richie added, "I think the combination of the public scrutiny on them now, and the fact they accept their responsibility as a sodal Leader seriously, makes it an amazing time to be working with them."
But a bit tricky, too, she noted. Players, after all, are encouraged to be aggressive on the field, where physical force is expected and rewarded, and often rewarded quite well finanda LLy.
In early October, Richie met with team owners, and she also has been meeting with stake holders who aren't part of the League, who are anti-violence activists and advocates, particularly those that work with groups that are underrepresented, such as Black community groups.
"It is an honor" to work with the NFL, Richie said.
When asked about the Rice situation and the disturbing-to-watch video, Richie said it was "pretty bad." She also pointed out that such physical abuse of women happens daily, many times per day, "probably four or five times during this interview," she said.
Richie admitted that she "sort of wondered" about being chosen by the NFL, being an out Lesbian. "If I had more time to do this [job], and was going to be doing it for a Longer time, I would want to push really hard on the questions around sexuality in this, particularly, hyper masculinity. You can't ignore it or deny it," Richie said. "At its root, what we're dealing with is, questions about masculinity, right alongside race and power."
Richie, who Lives in Hyde Park and has been partnered with Cathy Cohen for 11 years, is a professor of African-American studies; criminology, law and justice; and gender and women's studies at UIC.
'This is a unique moment in our national consciousness as we consider the impact of violence against women and the role of institutions in preventing and responding to it," Richie said.
aOther members of the NFL's domestic violence expert panel include Lisa Friel, former head of the sex crimes prosecution unit in the New York County District Attorney's Office; Peter Harvey, board member for Futures Without Violence and former New Jersey attorney general; Tony Porter, co-founder of the violence prevention organization A Call to Men; Jane Randel, co-founder of the anti-violence campaign NO MORE; Rita Smith, former executive director of the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence.

Subject: Professional football; Domestic violence; Assaults; Advisors

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Richie, Beth

Company / organization: Name: National Football League--NFL; NAICS: 711211, 813990

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Chicago lesbian joins NFL domestic-violence, sexual-assault group

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 6

Pages: 34

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2014

Publication date: Nov 5, 2014

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1625402620

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chicago-lesbian-joins-nfl-domestic-violence/docview/1625402620/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Nov 5, 2014

Last updated: 2023-09-19

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Intimate partner violence report out

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/intimate-partner-violence-report-out/docview/1618211011/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: NCAVP's 2013 report documents 21 homicides-the highest number of LGBTQ intimate partner violence (IPV) homicides recorded and on par with the 21 homicides in 2012.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=4&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=14&amp;date=2014-10-22&amp;atitle=Intimate+partner+violence+report+out&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=4&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=14&amp;date=2014-10-22&amp;atitle=Intimate+partner+violence+report+out&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   The National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs (NCAVP) has released the report "Intimate Partner Violence in Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer (LGBTQ), and HIV-Affected Communities in the United States in 2013."
NCAVP's 2013 report documents 21 homicides-the highest number of LGBTQ intimate partner violence (IPV) homicides recorded and on par with the 21 homicides in 2012.
Among some of the other findings:
-In 2013, NCAVP programs received 2,697 reports of intimate partner violence, an increase of 0.67 percent from 2012.
-The majority of homicide victims were gay men (76.19 percent), while cisgender Lesbian women accounted for 19.05 percent of victims. One of the victims was a Black transgender woman.
-People of color made up the majority of total survivors (50.2 percent), which represents a decrease from 2012, when people of color accounted for 62.1 percent of survivors. White survivors accounted for 49.0 percent of survivors, a large increase from 35.5 percent in 2012.
-Transgender survivors were more likely to face physical violence and discrimination due to IPV, and more Likely to experience IPV in public spaces.
Illinois members of the NCAVP include Chicago's Center on Halsted Anti-Violence Project and the Illinois Accountability Initiative.
The full report is at www.ncavp.org.
October is Domestic Violence Awareness Month.

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Violence; Personal relationships

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Intimate partner violence report out

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 4

Pages: 14

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2014

Publication date: Oct 22, 2014

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1618211011

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/intimate-partner-violence-report-out/docview/1618211011/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 22, 2014

Last updated: 2023-09-19

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

CALENDAR

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calendar/docview/1618210754/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Night of 100 Drag Queens 2014: Animal Queendom Annual two-night benefit extravaganza for Equality Illinois. 7 pm VIP reception, gen. adm. at 8pm. Tickets available in advance from Sidetrack bartenders and online. Hosted by Debbie Fox and Tequila Mockingbird. Directed by Jeff Lynch. See ad in Nightspots or Sidetrack website for full list of performers. 7:00pm - 11:00pm Sidetrack 3349 N Habted St Chicago http://www.sidetrackchicago.com

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=4&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=28&amp;date=2014-10-22&amp;atitle=CALENDAR&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=4&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=28&amp;date=2014-10-22&amp;atitle=CALENDAR&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Wed., Oct. 22
American Women Rebuilding France 1917-1924 Documents the work of hundreds of American women who left comfortable lives in the US to volunteer humanitarian service in France during and after the WWII. Through Saturday, Jan. 3, 2015 12:00pm Newberry Library 60 W Walton St Chicago http://www.newberry. org/09172014-american-women-rebuilding-france-1917-1924
Work! Chicago, an LGBTQ youth job fair All members of the community can attend, with a special focus on LGBTQ youth and the transgender community.Sponsored by Windy City Times, Chicago House TransWorks, TransTech and the Center on Halsted. 12:00pm - 4:00pm Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted St., chicagosummit. lgbthomelessness.com/
YWomen Leadership Awards honors Mary F. Morten, Gail Vierneisel and Kourtney Cockerell Morten is to be honored for her longstanding committment to women's and LGBTI communities and coalition building across gender, race and class. 6pm cocktail reception, 7:30 pm I dinner, 8:15 pm film and awards Presentation 6:00pm Hilton Orrington Hotel in Evanston 847-864-8445, ext. 121. http:// tinyurl.com/nl4tta6
Bullied: Youth, Gender, and Homophobia Sociologist C.J. Pascoe on her studies on how teenage boys represent themselves as masculine by hurling gay slurs. 4:00pm Frick Center Founders Lounge, 190 Prospect Ave., Elmhurst http://www.elmhurst.edu/tix
LGBTQ Latin@ Platica Join United Latino Pride to talk about LGBTQ Latinidad, celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month and LGBTQ History Month and join a discussion and open forum. 6:30pm Cultura, 1900 S Carpenter St, https://www.facebook. com/events/1552596538305502/?ref=6& ref_n otif_ty pe=p la n_use r _i n vited
Night of 100 Drag Queens 2014: Animal Queendom Annual two-night benefit extravaganza for Equality Illinois. 7 pm VIP reception, gen. adm. at 8pm. Tickets available in advance from Sidetrack bartenders and online. Hosted by Debbie Fox and Tequila Mockingbird. Directed by Jeff Lynch. See ad in Nightspots or Sidetrack website for full list of performers. 7:00pm - 11:00pm Sidetrack 3349 N Habted St Chicago http://www.sidetrackchicago.com
Thursday, Oct. 23
Find Your Center Tour Learn more about the impact of the programs and services Center on Habted provides. Free. RSVP at link. Questions to ewilkerson@centeronhabted.org 8:00am - 9:00am Center on Habted 3656 N Habted Chicago Tickets: https://community.centeronhalsted.org/ FindYourCenterTour
World of Worship Church Interest Meeting Eat, mingle and learn more about The WOW Church, an urban and radically inclusive ministry that welcoming all regardless of race, age, sexual orientation and physical or mental ability. 6:30pm - 7:30pm Comfort Inn Chicago 601 W Diversey Parkway Chicago 872-588-5969 http://www.wowchicago.org/#!get-involved/clni Tickets: http://www.wowchicago.org/#!interest-meeting-sign-up/cstq
Michael Schmelling: Your Blues exhibition Exploring the musical landscape of the Chicago region, focusing on the overlooked and off-the-beaten-path, frequenting house party shows and searching out niche and local acts not widely known. Through Dece. 21, 2014 11:00pm Museum of Contemporary Photography Columbia College 600 S Michigan Avenue Chicago http://www.colum.edu
Friday, Oct. 24
Connecting the T to LGBT Trans 101 training/seminar by Nikk Selik and Man Cave! All ages. Identifying as LGB does not automatically make someone a T ally. The gab in understanding impacts the community as a whole. 7:00pm - 9:00pm Center on Habted 3656 N Habted Chicago http:// www.centeronhalsted.org/newevents-detaib.cfm?ID=9071
The Laramie Project Documentary-style drama by Moisés Kaufman and the members of the Tectonic Theater Project, set in Wyoming, recounts the brutal murder of an openly gay college student. Talkback follows with the cast and Tracy Bairn, editor-in-chief of The Windy City Times. $5 to $25. 7:30pm Northwestern University Ethel M. Barber Theater, 30 Arts Circle Drive, Evanston http://wirtz.northwestern.edu.
Witches Among Us New American Folk Theatre presents the new musical by Rick Karlin & Scott Free. Friday nights at 7:30pm through Nov. 7 7:30pm The Call (Chicago) 1547 W Bryn Mawr Chicago http://www.newamericanfolktheatre. org/#!season-of-the-witch/c4uz
Or Chadash Shabbat Service with the Chicagoland synagogue serving LGBT Jews, their families, friends and loved ones. Membership is open to everyone. 8:00pm Congregation Or Chadash at Emanuel Congregation 5959 N. Sheridan Rd., Chicago http://OrChadash.org
Love's In Need of Love Concert Fundraiser Featuring: Jesse Dean Stanford, Rachael Weasley, Leslie Michele. MC's: Pastor J. Talma, "Mama T" Williams. Benefits The Lighthouse's work with homeless youth. Doors 8pm. 8:30pm Glessner House Museum 1800 S. Prairie Ave. Chicago https://www.facebook.com/ events/3 57 68107 7720665/
Saturday, Oct. 25
VOICES Panel Discussion For survivors of domestic violence, those that work with victims, or anyone whose life has been touched by domestic violence. This panel will discuss how art can be a therapeutic outlet in response to trauma. 2:00pm Woman Made Gallery 685 N. Milwaukee Ave. https://www.facebook.com/ events/719549864759959/
Riva Lehrer at Chicago Humanities Festival Performing "JARRED: Self-Portrait in Formaldehyde." 4:30pm - 5:30pm Block Museum 40 Arts Circle Dr., Evanston, IL 60208 http://chicagohumanities.org/ events/2014/journeys/riva-lehrer-a-selfportrait-in-formaldehyde
OPALGA Gala and 25th Anniversary The Oak Park Area Leadership Award will recognize Rep. Greg Harris, state Sen. Don Harmon, and publisher and executive editor of Windy City Media Group, Tracy Bairn, for their efforts in making marriage equality a reality in Illinois. Proceeds benefit OPALGA Education Scholarship Fund, The Lakeside Pride Marching Band, and The Historical Society of Oak Park and River Forest, info@opalga.com 6:30pm Nineteenth Century Club 178 Forest Ave Oak fork, IL 60301 http://www.opalga.org
By Women For Women: Art - Performance - Engagement Silent auction to benefit Affinity Community Services, featuring custom designs by LGBTQ artists Sam Kirk and Andy Bellomo. $70 before Oct. 1, $90 after. $105 Concierge admission includes parking at Joffrey Tower 6:30pm Tickets: https://community.centeronhabted. org/ByWomenForWomen
Chicago Gay Men's Chorus Lipstick & Lyrics, "Into the Hood: A Mary-Tale" Livesinging drag performance, with increased production values, presented by Michael Leppen under the direction of Tony Lewis, of Mid Tangent Productions (Snow White and The Seven Drag Queens), and musical direction of Patrick Sinozich. $35 to $100 for VIP. 8 p.m., Park West Chicago 322 W Armitage Ave., 773-296-0541 Tickets: http://www.cgmc.org
Sappho's Salon Sheila Donohue, performance poet, and Crooked Mouth, singers and songwriters. $7-$10 sliding scale suggested donation. Light refreshments 7:00pm Women & Children First Bookstore 5233 N Clark St Chicago http:// www.womenandchildrenfirst.com
Sunday, Oct. 26
Chicago Humanities Festival Journeys, the 25th Anniversary Chicago Humanities Festival, 100+ events across Chicago. Runs through Nov. 19 11:00am - 8:30am Various locations http://chicagohumanities. org/
Faces Broadway United Methodist Church and Project YEPP will be partnering to present a portion of the show in order to strengthen community bonds between parishioners, neighbors, and the youth community. 11:00am Broadway United Methodist Church, 3338 N Broadway, http://www.broadwaychurchchicago.com/
Support Kelly Cassidy and see Avenue Q Sponsor, $250 ea. Reception and 1 show ticket, $100 ea. Reception only $50 ea. 1 Show ticket $50 ea. 3:00pm The Mercury Theater Chicago 3745 N Southport Ave Chicago Tickets: https://secure.actblue. com/contribute/page/avenue
Monday, Oct. 27
The Black Excellence Awards Interdisciplinary arts award honors and celebrates African American Artists in the fields of theater, music, dance, film and visual arts. 6:30pm http://www.africanamericanartsallianceofchicago.com
Shoop Comedy LGBTQ and female-friendly stand-up comedy and drag showcase for girls, gurls, and grrrls (boys abo welcome). Every 4th Monday 8:00pm - 10:00pm Double Door's Door No. 3 1551 N Damen Ave. Chicago, IL 60622 http:// hamburgermarys.com/chicago/
Tuesday, Oct. 28
Affinity Board Meeting Board Meetings are on the fourth Tuesday of the month and, except for the executive session, are open to the public For questions, contact Kim Hunt at executivedirector@affinity95.org. 6:30pm - 8:30pm Affinity Community Services 1424 E. 53rd St. Suite 306 Chicago http://www.affinity95.org
Wed., Oct. 29
Lost Voices: A Ferguson Story documentary screening Free. Collective of Chicago artists and activist partner with a protest group from Ferguson on The Lost Voices Tour, a series of documentary screenings, community discussions, performances, and workshops centered around the unrest in Ferguson since the shooting death of unarmed Black teen Mike Brown by Ferguson police officer Darren Wibon. 6:00pm Young Chicago Authors, 1180 N Milwaukee Ave.
Sidebar A RIVA RUNS THROUGH IT
Saturday, Oct. 25
Artist Riva Lehrer will perform as part of the Chicago Humanities Festival.
Photo by Hal Baim

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: CALENDAR

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 4

Pages: 28

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2014

Publication date: Oct 22, 2014

Section: the DISH

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 1618210754

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calendar/docview/1618210754/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 22, 2014

Last updated: 2023-09-19

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

UIC policy expert named to NFL's violence panel

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/uic-policy-expert-named-nfls-violence-panel/docview/1613192011/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "The problem of violence, particularly against women and children, can't simply be addressed by public polices relying on incarceration. So it's important for organizational and grassroots efforts to take into account the need for education, resources, outreach and social change," said [Beth Richie], who is professor of African-American studies; criminology, law, and justice; and gender and women's studies at UIC.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=2&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=25&amp;date=2014-10-08&amp;atitle=UIC+policy+expert+named+to+NFL%27s+violence+panel&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=2&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=25&amp;date=2014-10-08&amp;atitle=UIC+policy+expert+named+to+NFL%27s+violence+panel&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Beth Richie, director of the Institute for Research on Race and Public Policy at the University of Illinois at Chicago, has been named a senior adviser to the National Football League's policy group addressing domestic violence and sexual assault.
Richie, who is openly gay, joins a previously announced group tasked with developing the NFL's educational and service programs, and to assist in revising the League's personal conduct policy.
"The problem of violence, particularly against women and children, can't simply be addressed by public polices relying on incarceration. So it's important for organizational and grassroots efforts to take into account the need for education, resources, outreach and social change," said Richie, who is professor of African-American studies; criminology, law, and justice; and gender and women's studies at UIC.
"This is a unique moment in our national consciousness as we consider the impact of violence against women and the role of institutions in preventing and responding to it. I Look forward to working with the distinguished panel and the NFL to address these issues and deliver poLides that will have a positive impact on the individuals most affected, the League overall and social institutions more broadly as we strive to enhance public awareness of and response to the problem of violence."
The League formed the expert panel after several players were involved in domestic violence or child-abuse incidents.
Richie studies the ways that race or ethnicity and social position affect women's experience of violence and incarceration, focusing on the experiences of African-American battered women and sexual-assault survivors.
She is the author of the book Arrested Justice: Black Women, Violence and America's Prison Nation, which chronicles the evolution of the contemporary anti-violence movement during the time of mass incarceration in the U.S. She has also published articles on Black feminism and gender violence; race and criminal justice policy; and the social dynamics around issues of sexuality, prison abolition, and grassroots organizations in African-American communities.
Her first book, Compelled to Crime: the Gender Entrapment of Black Battered Women, is taught in many college courses and often cited in media reports for its arguments concerning race, gender and crime.
Her work has been supported by grants from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, the Ford Foundation, the National Institute for Justice and the National Institute of Corrections. Among honors she has received are the Audre Lorde Legacy Award from the Union Institute, the Advocacy Award from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and the Visionary Award from the Violence Intervention Project. In 2013 she was awarded an honorary degree by the City University of New York (CUNY) Law School.
Richie is a board member of the Institute on Domestic Violence in the African Community, the Center for Fathers' Families and Public Policy, and A Call To Men, and she is a founding member of INCITE!: Women of Color Against Violence.
Other members of the NFL's domestic violence expert panel include Lisa Friel, former head of the sex crimes prosecution unit in the New York County District Attorney's Office; Peter Harvey, board member for Futures Without VioLence and former New Jersey attorney general; Tony Porter, co-founder of the violence prevention organization A Call to Men; Jane Randel, co-founder of the anti-violence campaign NO MORE; and Rita Smith, former executive director of the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence.

Subject: Professional football; Domestic violence; Sex crimes; Gays & lesbians; Appointments & personnel changes

Business indexing term: Subject: Appointments & personnel changes

People: Richie, Beth

Company / organization: Name: National Football League--NFL; NAICS: 711211, 813990; Name: University of Illinois at Chicago; NAICS: 611310

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: UIC policy expert named to NFL's violence panel

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 2

Pages: 25

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2014

Publication date: Oct 8, 2014

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1613192011

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/uic-policy-expert-named-nfls-violence-panel/docview/1613192011/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 8, 2014

Last updated: 2023-09-19

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Facebook trying to fix policy

Author: Simonette, Matt

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/facebook-trying-fix-policy/docview/1613191976/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "Our policy has never been to require everyone on Facebook to use their Legal name," [Chris Cox] noted. "The spirit of our policy is that everyone on Facebook uses the authentic name they use in real life. For Sister Roma, that's Sister Roma. For Lil Miss Hot Mess, that's Lil Miss Hot Mess. Part of what's been so difficult about this conversation is that we support both of these individuals, and so many others affected by this, completely and utterly in how they use Facebook."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=2&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=12&amp;date=2014-10-08&amp;atitle=Facebook+trying+to+fix+policy&amp;au=Simonette%2C+Matt&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=2&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=12&amp;date=2014-10-08&amp;atitle=Facebook+trying+to+fix+policy&amp;au=Simonette%2C+Matt&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Facebook officials announced Oct. 1 that they're working to fix the "real-name" policy that raised concerns among trans individuals, drag queens and other members of the LGBT community.
Facebook Chief Products Officer Chris Cox apologized to LGBT community members the policy adversely affected.
"In the two weeks since the real-name policy issues surfaced, we've had the chance to hear from many of you in these communities and understand the policy more clearly as you experience it," Cox wrote. "We've also come to understand how painful this has been. We owe you a better service and a better experience using Facebook, and we're going to fix the way this policy gets handled so everyone affected here can go back to using Facebook as you were."
Cox said that a Facebook user had reported several hundred accounts as being fakes, adding, "These reports were among the several hundred thousand fake name reports we process every single week, 99 percent of which are bad actors doing bad things: impersonation, bullying, trolling, domestic violence, scams, hate speech, and more-so we didn't notice the pattern."
Owners of suspected fake accounts are asked to verify their identities by submitting some form of identification, a practice Cox defended, saying it protected Facebook from users hiding behind pseudonyms to harass and bully other users. But he promised that flagged accounts would be managed in "a Less abrupt and more thoughtful" manner.
"Our policy has never been to require everyone on Facebook to use their Legal name," Cox noted. "The spirit of our policy is that everyone on Facebook uses the authentic name they use in real life. For Sister Roma, that's Sister Roma. For Lil Miss Hot Mess, that's Lil Miss Hot Mess. Part of what's been so difficult about this conversation is that we support both of these individuals, and so many others affected by this, completely and utterly in how they use Facebook."

Subject: Gays & lesbians; False information; Regulation; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Company / organization: Name: Facebook Inc; NAICS: 516210, 518210

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Facebook trying to fix polic y

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 2

Pages: 12

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2014

Publication date: Oct 8, 2014

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1613191976

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/facebook-trying-fix-policy/docview/1613191976/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 8, 2014

Last updated: 2023-09-19

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

CALENDAR

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calendar/docview/1610207005/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Bi discussion group Every other Tuesday, chat about upcoming bisexual events, concerns, and answer each other's questions about the community. Soft drinks, water are provided by the Center, or bring anything else you'd like to share, whether it's snacks or a good book! 7:00pm - 9:00pm Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted Chicago http://www.centeronhabted.org

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=1&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=20&amp;date=2014-10-01&amp;atitle=CALENDAR&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=30&amp;issue=1&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=20&amp;date=2014-10-01&amp;atitle=CALENDAR&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Wed., Oct. I
Trans Youth Resources and Advocacy Youth Drop-In Center Every Wednesday, safe, confidential place for transgender people between the ages of 14 to 24. Meet other youth who also identify as transgender, or are questioning their gender identity. Free food, snacks and refreshments, music, peer support, adult supervision, referrals and education. 5:00pm - 7:00pm Broadway Youth Center, 615 W Wellington Ave., http://www.genderadvocates.org/ Tyra/TYRADropIn.html
American Women Rebuilding France 1917-1924 Documents the work of hundreds of American women who left comfortable lives in the US to volunteer humanitarian service in France during and after the WWII. Through Saturday, Jan. 3, 2015 12:00pm Newberry Library 60 W Walton St Chicago http://www.newberry. org/09172014-american-women-rebuilding-france-1917-19 24
Heartland Alliance's Annual Pub Quiz Against Poverty Trivia, appetizers, drinks, prizes to raise funds for Heartland Alliance's policy and advocacy efforts. 6:00pm 2909 N. Sheffield, Lakeview http://www.heartlandalliance.org
Orientation and Career Fair Chicago Women in Trades (CWIT) offers free construction classes for women. 6:00pm 2444 West 16th St., Chicago 312-9421444 https://www.facebook.com/ eve nts/1483 51317857 2302/
The Gay Agenda party and fundraiser Mary Morten and Jim Bennett launch their new Chicago-based production company, Focused Media, LLC, by celebrating the second season of their most popular project, The Gay Agenda, with a party. 6:00pm - 8:00pm Sidetrack 3349 N Halsted St Chicago http://www.thegayagendalive.com
Elaine Soloway, author Green Nails and Other Acts of Rebellion: Life After Loss launch party 7:00pm Women & Children First Bookstore 5233 N Clark St Chicago http://www.womenandchildrenfirst.com
La Roux Androgynous English synthpop singer will perform with Midnight Magic $28 7:00pm Concord Music Hall 2047 N. Milwaukee Chicago Tickets: http:// www.clubtix.com/concordmusichall/ la-roux-at-concord-music-hall-tickets305785?p=14511
Paloma Faith Multiplatinum UK superstar on tour celebrating the release of her upcoming new album, A Perfect Contradiction. $17.50 7:30pm Park West Chicago 322 W Armitage Ave Chicago http://palomafaith.com Tickets: http://jamusa.com/ park-west/
Thursday, Oct. 2
Dining Out for Equality benefits Equality Illinois Eat dinner at one of the restaurants listed at the link and a portion of the evening's sales will support advocacy work for LGBT equality. 6:00pm Various locations http://www.equalityillinois.us/ wp-content/uploads/2013/04/RELEASE_ Dining-Out-For-Equality-and-LegacyWalk_10-4-12.pdf
American Veterans for Equal Rights monthly meeting All veterans and those interested in veteran issues and activities are welcome. 7:00pm Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted Chicago 773-472-6469 http://www.averchicago.com
Classics of women's literature Woman at Point Zero by Nawal El Saadawi 7:15pm Women & Children First Bookstore 5233 N Clark St Chicago http://www.womenandchildrenfirst.com
Eula Biss, author On Immunity: An Inoculation Why do we fear vaccines? A provocative examination by Eula Biss, the author of Notes from No Man's Land, winner of the National Book Critics Circle Award 7:30pm Women & Children First Bookstore 5233 N Clark St Chicago http:// www.womenandchildrenfirst.com
Lafs Riot One-night only improv and sketch comedy show. 8:00pm - 12:00am The Public House Theatre 3914 N. Clark St. Chicago http://www.lifeisafunnyscene. com/kaype-productions-presents-lafsriot/#more-4861
Friday, Oct. 3
Witches Among Us New American Folk Theatre presents the new musical by Rick Karlin & Scott Free. Friday nights at 7:30pm through Nov. 7 7:30am The Call (Chicago) 1547 W Bryn Mawr Chicago http://www.newamericanfolktheatre. org/#!season-of-the-witch/c4uz
College of DuPage Pride Alliance Speaker Series Karlie Johnson, Eve Alliance President on Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault 12:00pm - 1:00pm BIC 3245, 425 Fawell Blvd., College of DuPage, Glen Ellyn http://www.facebook.com/CODPrideAlliance
Cornelia Arts Building October Open Studios Jason Messinger and over 40 of the building's residents and guest artists celebrate Chicago Artist's Month. Messinger will feature new artwork and special guest artist Joey Wozniak. 6:00pm - 10:00pm The Cornelia Arts Building, 1800 West Cornelia, Chicago http://CorneliaArtsBuilding.com
Judas Priest Redeemer of Souls Tour 2014 7:30pm The Venue at Horseshoe Casino 777 Casino Center Dr Hammond, IN 46320 Tickets: http://www.ChicagoHorseshoe. com
Bible Bingo & Late Nite Catechism Bible Bingo is a comedy about the Catholic culture of fundraising and bingo, featuring the character, Mrs. Mary Margaret O'Brien, a former nun who now heads a fictitious archdiocese fundraising department. Now in its 21st year in Chicago. 8:00pm Royal George Theatre 1641 N Halsted St Chicago 312-988-9000 http://www. latenitecatechism.info Tickets: http:// www.latenitecatechism.info
Or Chadash Shabbat Service with the Chicagoland synagogue serving LGBT Jews, their families, friends and loved ones. Membership is open to everyone. 8:00pm Congregation Or Chadash at Emanuel Congregation 5959 N Sheridan Rd Chicago http://OrChadash.org
Saturday, Oct. 4
Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance, Chicago-area GLBT Chapter Specifically founded to meet the needs of the Chicago-area GLBT community with mood disorders or other significant psychological conditions, as well as their friends, partners, and family members. Free. No RSVP needed. 11:00am - 12:30pm Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted Chicago http:// www.dbsa-glbt-chicago.com/
Fitness training Chicago Gay Hockey Association off-ice workout training classes every Saturday each week. Free to members. $5 for non-members 1:00pm Urban Athlete, 4437 N. Ravenswood Ave., Chicago http://chicagogayhockey.org/ calendar/
3rd Annual Operation: Do Ask, Do Tell A symposium for LGBT Veterans, Active Duty Service Members, families, friends and health care providers focusing on health needs and resources. Kristin Beck, transgender Navy Seal and LGBTQ civil rights activist, is keynote speaker. Northeastern Illinois University 8:30pm - 3:30pm Hines Veterans Administration Hospital auditorium, Bldg 9, 5000 S. 5th Ave., Hines, IL Tickets: https://www.facebook. com/events/742484089151147/
CAKE Chicago's Eightth Anniversary Show Come for the beer, stay for the queer. Celebrate 8 years of this queer musical showcase, featuring Marcus Waller, The Hybrids and Ripley Caine & the Full Moon. 9:00pm - 1:00am The Red Line Tap 7006 N Glenwood Chicago http://facebook. com/cakechicago
Vaudezilla: Peepshow Creepshow Weekly cabaret. $20. 10:30pm Stage 773 1225 W Belmont Chicago http://redhotannie. com/
Sunday, Oct. 5
ShelOO's Inaugural Grants Presentation Ceremony ShelOO was founded in 2013 for LGBTQ women supporting charitable, philanthropic and community endeavors in Chicago. 3:00pm - 5:30pm Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted Chicago http:// shel00.org
Open Photo Shoot for the NOH8 Campaign Come camera ready, wear plain white shirt, pose and make a statement. Fee $40 group or $2 per person, cash and major credit cards only. Fees cover processing for one retouched digital image (made available online only). No RSVP to attend, photos are first come, first served. Celebrity photographer Adam Bouska will be working around the clock. 4:00pm - 7:00pm City Center, Great Room 1, 172 W Adams St., Chicago http://www.noh8campaign.com/ event/open-photo-shoot-in-chicago-il-1
The Alliance Brunch: Remembering Our Past. In The Present. For Our Future. Illinois Safe Schools Alliance invites allies and supporters to celebrate the ongoing expansion of the Alliance's work throughout all of Illinois, promoting safety, support and healthy development for LGBTQ youth, in Illinois schools and communities. Brunch, awards, a silent auction and drinks for the 21+ crowd. 11:30pm Sidney R. Yates Gallery, Chicago Cultural Center, 78 E. Washington Blvd. Chicago www. illinoissafeschools.org
Thesday, Oct. 7
David Bowie Is The first retrospective of the extraordinary career of David Bowieone of the most pioneering and influential performers of our time. More than 400 objects from the David Bowie Archive. $25. Through Jan. 4, 2015 12:00pm Museum of Contemporary Art (MCA) 220 East Chicago Ave Chicago 312-397-4068 Tickets: http://www2.mcachicago.org/exhibition/ david-bowie-is
Bi discussion group Every other Tuesday, chat about upcoming bisexual events, concerns, and answer each other's questions about the community. Soft drinks, water are provided by the Center, or bring anything else you'd like to share, whether it's snacks or a good book! 7:00pm - 9:00pm Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted Chicago http://www.centeronhabted.org
Wed., Oct. 8
American Women Rebuilding France 1917-1924 Documents the work of hundreds of American women who left comfortable lives in the US to volunteer humanitarian service in France during and after the WWII. Through Saturday, Jan. 3, 2015 12:00pm Newberry Library 60 W Walton St Chicago http://www.newberry. org/09172014-american-women-rebuilding-france-1917-1924
Sidebar BECK AND CALL
Saturday, uctl 4
Kristin Beck will be the keynote speaker at the third annual "Do Ask, Do Tell" symposium.

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: CALENDAR

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 30

Issue: 1

Pages: 20

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2014

Publication date: Oct 1, 2014

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 1610207005

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calendar/docview/1610207005/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 1, 2014

Last updated: 2023-09-19

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Billie Jean King takes fair shot at equality at luncheon

Author: Blickensderfer, Gretchen Rachel

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/billie-jean-king-takes-fair-shot-at-equality/docview/1566911784/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "More than half of our minimum-wage workers are women," [Pat Quinn] said. "It's very important that we in Illinois work together to raise the minimum wage and pass it by the end of this year in the General Assembly." He also stressed that keeping women safe from the debilitating horrors wrought by domestic violence should be a goal shared by both the state and the country as a whole. "I've had a chance to visit some who are on the front Lines making sure we protect all women...

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=52&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=22&amp;date=2014-09-24&amp;atitle=Billie+Jean+King+takes+fair+shot+at+equality+at+luncheon&amp;au=Blickensderfer%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=52&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=22&amp;date=2014-09-24&amp;atitle=Billie+Jean+King+takes+fair+shot+at+equality+at+luncheon&amp;au=Blickensderfer%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   The Life of Legendary tennis champion and hall of famer BiLLie Jean King is one that has triumphed over each of the challenge rounds she has faced both personally and throughout a professional career that garnered her 20 Wimbledon titles and 39 Grand Slam singles. Her ardent work towards equality for women and in the LGBTQ community garnered her recognition from advocacy organizations across the country. In 2009, she was awarded the Medal of Freedom from President Obama.
King once famously said, "No one changes the world who isn't obsessed." As the keynote speaker for the 29th annual luncheon held by the Chicago Foundation for Women (CFW) at the Hyatt Regency Sept. 18, she was Lending a hand (and lobbing a few tennis balls) to an organization that has been obsessed with advancing equality for all women and girls via $18 million dollars worth of grants distributed throughout a nearly three decade Legacy of empowerment.
In keeping with King's preternatural ability to break records, according to CFW President/ CEO K. Sujata, the Luncheon-fundraiser was the highest grossing in the organization's history. Before King joined WBEZ sports contributor Cheryl Raye-Stout for a candid discussion on how to ensure a fair shot for women both on and off the sports field, Illinois Gov. Pat Quinn and Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel-each fighting for game, set and match in his re-election campaign-stepped up to the podium to voice their support for women's equality.
"More than half of our minimum-wage workers are women," Quinn said. "It's very important that we in Illinois work together to raise the minimum wage and pass it by the end of this year in the General Assembly." He also stressed that keeping women safe from the debilitating horrors wrought by domestic violence should be a goal shared by both the state and the country as a whole. "I've had a chance to visit some who are on the front Lines making sure we protect all women from any kind of violence," he said. "We've been reminded in recent days how important that issue is."
Dramatically making Quinn's argument, Rosalva Nava-a domestic-violence survivor and parent peer trainer at Community Organization and Family Issues (COFI)-told her story. "Nineteen years ago, I Locked myself in a bathroom with a loaded gun," she recalled. "I was ready to take my Life. It was hopeless." Nava had reached that point because her husband had subjected her to heinous physical and mental abuse that included, on one occasion. pushing her out of a moving car. "My spirit was broken and I was ready to pull the trigger," Nava said, adding that it was her young daughter's knock on the bathroom door that stayed her hand and ultimately sent her on a journey that would free her from a Life of wretched degradation.
After boasting that he now offered his employees four months of paid medical Leave, Emanuel announced that Chicago is about to build its first new domestic-violence shelter in a decade, noting that police respond to 25,000 domestic-violence calls per year. "The first person that a mother or a girlfriend meets is a police officer," he said while assuring the audience of new training initiatives now in place via a partnership between the CPD and Cook County State's Attorney Anita Alvarez. "We're making sure that we have policies-from income to education to social services-to support a family in making the right choices," Emanuel stated.
The emotional atmosphere of the Luncheon returned with Raye-Stoufs more impassioned introduction to the keynote speaker. She called King her hero, mentor and role model. "I know that every other person in this room has benefited from BiLLie Jean King's vision, determination, principles and courage," Raye-Stout said.
King walked on stage to a Long standing ovation.
Looking back on the genesis of her career, King remembered her days as an 11-year-old young girl on the public tennis courts of Long Beach, California. "I had access and opportunity," King said. "Because the city of Long Beach had a great parks and recreation program, I was able to have instruction at the public parks."
There, she was introduced to a tennis coach named Clyde Walker. "At the end of that day, I knew I had found what I was going to do with my Life," she recalled. "I wanted to be the number one tennis player in the world and I had only played twice."
One year Later, King had an epiphany. She said, "I closed my eyes and I started thinking everybody in tennis wears white shoes, white socks, white clothes. Everybody was always in white and I asked myself, 'Where's everybody else?"'
Using tennis as a platform. King wanted to change not only her sport, but the world beyond it. "Sports is just a microcosm of the world and of society," she said and referred to the recent spate of domestic-violence incidents involving National Football League players. "It just shows you what's going on in Life and magnifies it because there's so much attention given to it which is good because now we have a dialogue and people are focused and want to make a difference."
Even at the age of 12, King knew that the only way she was going to make a difference herself was to become number one in her field. "I already knew, as a girl, that I was more of an outsider when it came to the boys," she said. "I was in sports and around men all the time and I thought 'this is going to be tough.'"
Seventeen years Later, King played Bobby Riggs in a match televised around the world and called "The Battle of the Sexes." Notwithstanding the barrage of misogynistic taunts that Riggs Lobbed towards King before the match even began, King told Raye-Stout that the reason it received so much exposure was simply because she was playing against a guy.
"Ninety-five percent of the media is controlled by men," King said. "It's sad to think the reason we got that attention is because it was about them. If it had been two women against each other it would have got nothing."
In terms of the Lack of attention paid to women's sports, King sees a clear parallel to today. "It reflects where women are in society: 18 percent in the House of Representatives, 20 percent in the Senate. That's pathetic," she declared. "Then, if you go into people of color, we are so far behind."
In order to change those statistics, King urged the audience to empower themselves. "Each one of us is an influencer and I don't think you realize it. I just don't think people know the power they have. When you hear Rosalva Nava's story, you realize the courage it took to find her voice. That's what this is about. It's one-by-one-by one."
King encouraged people, not only to find their own voice, but to think globally about changing the conversation from hatred to Love. "The LGBT community in Russia has had a setback," she said. "I met a boy there. He's scared; he's getting beaten up every day, people are trying to rape him. It's terrible."
She also wanted to see an end to a woman's constant feeling that she needs to apologize for herself. "We have to stand up and have our voice," she said. "We're fine and great just the way we are."
For more information about the work of the Chicago Foundation for Women, visit http://www.cfw.org.

Subject: Conferences; Athletes; Equality; Social justice; Gender equity

Business indexing term: Subject: Gender equity

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: King, Billie Jean

Company / organization: Name: Chicago Foundation for Women; NAICS: 813319

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Billie Jean King takes fair shot at equality at luncheon

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 29

Issue: 52

Pages: 22

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2014

Publication date: Sep 24, 2014

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1566911784

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/billie-jean-king-takes-fair-shot-at-equality/docview/1566911784/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Sep 24, 2014

Last updated: 2023-09-19

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Honors roll in for UIC researcher

Author: Forman, Ross

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/honors-roll-uic-researcher/docview/1558306900/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [Tonda L. Hughes]' research dates back to the early 1990s. She said the UIC award "Legitimizes my work." Plus, being the first honoree is not Lost on Hughes "because we have a number of really excellent, highly recognized national and international researchers in the college."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=47&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2014-08-20&amp;atitle=Honors+roll+in+for+UIC+researcher&amp;au=Forman%2C+Ross&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=47&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2014-08-20&amp;atitle=Honors+roll+in+for+UIC+researcher&amp;au=Forman%2C+Ross&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Dr. Tonda L. Hughes will receive the inaugural Distinguished Research Award, one of the most prestigious honors presented by the UIC (University of Illinois at Chicago) College of Nursing Sept. 26, marking the third career award she's received this year.
And those go alongside her 2003 induction into the Chicago Gay and Lesbian Hall of Fameand countless other awards, honors and highlights to an illustrious, decades-long career.
Hughes, 60, who Lives in Oak Park, is a professor in the Department of Health Systems Science (HSS). She has worked in Australia, Boston and elsewhere around the world-and is an international expert in the area of alcohol use among Lesbians. Hughes has secured more than $10 million in research funding throughout her career.
She is also the associate dean for global health at the UIC College of Nursing, and is codirector of BIRCWH: Building Interdisciplinary Research Careers in Women's Health.
Hughes, without question, is considered one of the greatest contributors in the field of Lesbian health.
She said being selected for three awards this year, "is some recognition of my work, but the work related to LGBT health in general."
"With all of the attention [given] to same-sex marriage, people are finally recognizing the impact of policies on health, including substance abuse and other things. I think people are just paying more attention," she said. "The [UIC] award is particularly important to me because it's recognition by my peers, which is always important to me."
Hughes' research dates back to the early 1990s. She said the UIC award "Legitimizes my work." Plus, being the first honoree is not Lost on Hughes "because we have a number of really excellent, highly recognized national and international researchers in the college."
She added that the UIC award "not only gives me confidence that my personal work is recognized, but the importance of the topic is recognized."
"I'm a hard worker and passionate about what I do, and have been fortunate to be recognized for my hard work and passion."
Hughes received the Distinguished Contribution Award at the 2014 Midwest Nursing Research Society (MNRS) annual conference, held in St. Louis in March. She also won the Betty Ford Award for contributions to the field of substance abuse in women from the Association of Medical Education and Research in Substance Abuse (AMERSA), which will be presented in early November at the AMERSA 38th Annual National Conference in San Francisco.
"It's been a banner year," she said with a smile.
And when asked what's been the key to her illustrious career, Hughes simply replied, "hard work ... and caring about it."
Ironically, Hughes never envisioned this is the path her career would go. "When I started my Ph.D. program, I sort of bounced around a Little bit, thinking about doing work with domestic violence and other kinds of violence, and I have now incorporated some ofthat."
But in time, with Little research then out there, except for already-skewed data, she moved into the field of alcohol use and alcohol problems among sexual minorities.
Hughes ultimately conducted two major research studies among Chicago Lesbians, including the first federally funded study of Lesbians' use of alcohol.
In 2001, she was awarded the $1.5-million National Institutes of Health grant to conduct the first-ever Longitudinal study of Lesbian health.
So what about Hughes away from the spotlight?
She laughed when asked to tell of the Hughes who most don't know. She is Loretta Lynn's third cousin, she said; however, they have never met.
Hughes was, in 1995, the Outstanding Alumnus Award winner from Eastern Kentucky University's College of Allied Health and Nursingand Lynn, the award-winning country music singer whose career dates back to the 1960s, was born in Johnson County, Kentucky.
"I got into nursing because I Like the idea of feeling better and was really fascinated with how the body works, the anatomy and physiology," she said. "I never considered research [as my career] until my master's degree, and things then just sort of fell into place.
"For me, research has always been Like putting pieces of a puzzle together. And it really fits my personality and my detail-orientation.
"I'm Leading a blessed Life, that's for sure."
Hughes said the volume of research in the Lesbian health field has skyrocketed, and also in the scope. "I'm hoping that, through more research, we can understand what it is about sexual minorities," she said. "One of the most intriguing things to me right now is the very high rates of all-time victimization, which is another area I'm extremely interested in.
"For some reason, women who identify as Lesbian or bisexual are much more Likely to report childhood sexual abuse, childhood physical abuse, childhood neglect, as well as adult physical abuse and adult sexual abuse, and intimate partner violence."
Hughes said her personal Life now includes her partner of two years, Rhonda Egidio, a semi-retired professor at Michigan State University. Hughes enjoys traveling, including trips such as an upcoming work-study journey to the Seattle area.

Subject: Researchers; Awards & honors; Public health; Gays & lesbians

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Hughes, Tonda L

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Honors roll in for UIC researcher

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 29

Issue: 47

Pages: 1,9

Number of pages: 2

Publication year: 2014

Publication date: Aug 20, 2014

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Il l.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1558306900

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/honors-roll-uic-researcher/docview/1558306900/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Aug 20, 2014

Last updated: 2023-09-18

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Montrose Rocks annual event faces uncertain future

Author: Wilson, Jason Carson

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/montrose-rocks-annual-event-faces-uncertain/docview/1555122286/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "It wasn't [feasible] to host the event to test," said event organizer Ariq [Ariq Cabbler]. He said the problem stemmed from the denial of a request to keep the sound system on until 6:30 p.m. "We didn't submit a permit this year [for the Montrose Location]."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=46&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2014-08-13&amp;atitle=Montrose+Rocks+annual+event+faces+uncertain+future&amp;au=Wilson%2C+Jason+Carson&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=46&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2014-08-13&amp;atitle=Montrose+Rocks+annual+event+faces+uncertain+future&amp;au=Wilson%2C+Jason+Carson&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   An annual Black pride event's continuity was interrupted-it was not formally held in 2014. Montrose Rocks, credited as the nation's largest one-day HIV testing event and health fair, didn't take place this year.
"It wasn't [feasible] to host the event to test," said event organizer Ariq Cabbler. He said the problem stemmed from the denial of a request to keep the sound system on until 6:30 p.m. "We didn't submit a permit this year [for the Montrose Location]."
A "retooling" of both the event and time will occur in 2015, according to Cabbler. It's slated to take place on the Saturday before the Chicago Pride Parade. Burnham and Union parks, both considered as Locations in 2014, are possible Locales for next year.
The Rocks Coordinating Committee was incorporated in May 1998. Although the document noted Gabbler was designated as a new agent, effective March 2013, the non-profit organization Lost its tax-exempt status in May 2012, according to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.
The Rocks Coordinating Committee has a new governing board for 2014-15. Cabbler declined to reveal the members' names at this point. That group is expected to begin planning the application process in October.
"In the future, it [the board] will be diverse," he said.
Even though a permit was not applied for at Montrose and the Lake, according to documents obtained by the Windy City Times, Cabbler did prepare a permit application on behalf of Brothers Health Collective for another park. Gabbler serves as the collective's executive director.
Cabbler said Brothers Health Collective had served as primary fiscal sponsor. But, to receive government funding, the organization had to hold the event instead of serving as a sponsor.
Due to budget cuts, both the Illinois Department of Public Health and Chicago Department of Public Health stopped funding one-day events.
According to a May 21 fax cover Letter, Brothers Health Collective was prepared to send Chicago Park District the permit-a Little more than a month before the June 28 event (that was a Saturday, the day before Pride; usually the Rocks event was held on a Sunday).
It requested space at Union Park, 1501 W. Randolph St., from 12 p.m. to 8 p.m., after being denied the time extension at Montrose Park. Union Park is Located in the 27th Ward, where Walter Burnett Jr. serves as alderman.
Cabbler said the extended time and new day was necessary, in order to reach testing goals. However, the park district planned to only allow four large events to take place at the park. If the event had taken place there, it would've been the park's fifth large event.
Cabbler said he dismissed holding the event at Burnham Park-another Location optionsince it was only available Sunday. He noted that holding the event costs between $12,000 and $15,000.
The permit said the event was slated to draw 800 people and planned to feature 10 health vendors and drag queens as featured entertainment.
Cabbler, in part, blamed the event's failure on 46th Ward Aid. James Cappleman's lack of support.
"[Cappleman] was quite clear that he was going to do things differently," Cabbler said. "He was very hands-off."
Unlike his predecessor, former 46th Ward Aid. Helen Shiller, Cappleman didn't organize a meeting between the Chicago Park District and special events commanders. Shiller, according to Cabbler, was a "champion" of the event. Shiner's coordination ensured a police presence helped reduce any incidents.
"There were no police resources at Montrose [Park]," Cabbler said, referring to Last year's event. "That's a coordinated effort that requires all hands on deck."
In addition, Cabbler credited Shiller for helping unauthorized vendors gain proper credentials before the next event. However, violence prevention, not event improvements, has been Cappleman's sole focus.
"It seems as if he saw it as a nuisance," Cabbler said.
Tressa Freher, Cappleman's chief of staff, responded to the organizer's allegations in a statement. Freher said Cappleman signs off on event permits after the Chicago Police and Park departments have signed off.
"The permitting process for this event never got to the point of reaching [his] desk," she said.
Unlike Montrose Rocks, Freher said, none of the various park events held each year require a joint meeting with the alderman's office, event organizers, as well as the police and park departments. She said organizers were told Last year that they would follow the same permitting process as everyone else.
In response to Freher, Cabbler stressed the Rocks Coordinating Committee had always worked with the alderman and involved agencies, since it was the 46th Ward's largest event. Unlike Shiller, Cappleman refused to hold community meetings. Cabbler said the park district's jurisdiction only extends to policing permit holders-not the event itself.
Rocks Coordinating Committee Co-Founder Michael O'Connor also expressed displeasure with Cappleman. O'Connor said Cappleman is being insensitive to the cultural tradition of Montrose Rocks. He also stressed the event's focus on HIV testing, given the 46th Ward has a high rate of HIV and AIDS. [The Chicago Department of Public Health HIV/STI Information Coordinator Marjani Williams said the city doesn't track HIV rates in each ward.]
Tensions between the community and commanders reared its head in 2013. Police attempted to connect a gang-related incident at the intersection of Wilson Street and Montrose Avenue to the Rocks event.
That prompted a suggestion to turn the public address system down at 5 p.m. A change in the Pride Parade route meant that people couldn't get back to Montrose Avenue until after 5 p.m. So, testing numbers fell. Cabbler said only 60 people were tested in 2013.
How Montrose Rocks began
The event has gone through a few changes during its nearly 20-year history. Event Organizer Ariq Cabbler said what's now known as Montrose Rocks began Life as Belmont Rocks and would move to Irving Park for a time.
However, the event didn't waver from its focus on health. In addition to HIV testing, it offered breast and cervical cancer services. And, Montrose Rocks also offered domestic violence resources. In a 2012 Windy City Times story, former organizer Anthony GaLLoway said it provides more than health information and testing services.
"It brings a sense of community," GaLLoway said. "It's essential that an event Like this occurs."
Research apparently reveals LGBT peoplewith a community of supporters-have better health outcomes. Also, Lakeview isn't the only neighborhood where LGBT Chicagoans Live.
"We know that our community is spread out all over Chicago," GaLLoway said.
Gabbler and GaLLoway took over Leadership from Rocks Coordinating Committee founders O'Connor, Marc Loveless and Lloyd Kelly and other board members. However, only Cabbleris name appears on an Illinois Secretary of State Corporation File Detail Report.
O'Connor stressed what inspired and sustained the event during its Lifetime.
"We wanted more than a party," O'Connor said about the efforts of him, Marc Loveless and Lloyd Kelly to Launch the Montrose Rocks event, several years after the original Belmont Rocks celebration had started.
'It's the largest [organized] African-American presence on the lakefront," he said.
"We decided we were going to be proactive," O'Connor said. "We had a legal right to get the permit and we used that permit."
That permit allowed Montrose Rocks to showcase entertainment, a vital health service and a platform to policymakers as well as LGBT constituent access to those power players.
U.S. Reps. Bobby Rush and Jesse Jackson Jr. as well as Late former Cook County Board President John Stroger Jr. and former state Rep. Constance Howard have headlined the event. O'Connor is a former staffer for Howard.
"We've honored anyone who's successfully achieved what we consider community service," O'Connor said.
O'Connor said the Rocks Coordinating Committee was the only active organization to honor African-American policymakers as well as allies publicly. He stressed why he and fellow Rocks Coordinating Committee founders had such a civic-minded focus.
"We understood the importance-unlike the apolitical [individuals] who fought us-of visibility of public policy decision-makers," he said. "That visibility translates into helping public policy."
House-music producer Frankie Knuckles, who died earlier this year, was also part of the event's history. Knuckles played out of the back of his van at Belmont Rocks.
"As far as I can remember, African Americans have always gathered separately from the parade," O'Connor said. "There was a time we were not effectively reached out to."
Belmont Rocks was a direct response to the "inability of promoters to adequately and Legally have a party on the Lakefront," according to O'Connor. He recalled when the Chicago Police Department ran us off the Lakefront" in the 1980s.
"They said we were not a part of the pride events," he said.

Subject: Medical tests; Human immunodeficiency virus--HIV; Permits; Special events; Federal funding

Business indexing term: Subject: Federal funding

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Cabbler, Ariq

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Montrose Rocks annual event faces uncertain future

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 29

Issue: 46

Pages: 11

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2014

Publication date: Aug 13, 2014

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1555122286

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/montrose-rocks-annual-event-faces-uncertain/docview/1555122286/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Aug 13, 2014

Last updated: 2023-09-18

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

AFC event 'Ignites' group's 30th anniversary

Author: Simonette, Matt

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/afc-event-ignites-groups-30th-anniversary/docview/1535253821/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "Nearly 30 years ago, when AIDS Foundation of Chicago was founded, we were faring a very different age in this epidemic," AFC Executive Director John PeLLer said. "We've made a tremendous amount of progress in the fight against HIV."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=35&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=9&amp;date=2014-05-28&amp;atitle=AFC+event+%27Ignites%27+group%27s+30th+anniversary&amp;au=Simonette%2C+Matt&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=35&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=9&amp;date=2014-05-28&amp;atitle=AFC+event+%27Ignites%27+group%27s+30th+anniversary&amp;au=Simonette%2C+Matt&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   About 325 supporters of AIDS Foundation of Chicago (AFC) gathered May 16 at Ignite Studios for the organization's "Ignite" party, intended to Launch the yearlong celebration of the organization's 30th anniversary.
"Nearly 30 years ago, when AIDS Foundation of Chicago was founded, we were faring a very different age in this epidemic," AFC Executive Director John PeLLer said. "We've made a tremendous amount of progress in the fight against HIV."
PeLLer then cited many new developments that illustrate that progress, among them: new HIV cases are being reduced among some populations, going down 90 percent among injection drug users, for example; more people with HIV are Learning when they are HIV-positive; and evidence that HIV-positive partners on treatment are unlikely to transmit the infection to partners who are HIV-negative.
PeLLer added that, "AFC recognized that helping people with HIV is about helping them with their daily struggles, from substance abuse to unstable housing, from homelessness to domestic violence and other challenges that they face in their Lives."
Attorney Robert Mink was presented with the Lori Kaufman Volunteer Award by Kaufman herself. She thanked Mink for "hundreds of hours of free legal assistance" to AFC and other organizations.
Accepting the award, Mink said, "The Leaders and staff of AFC have just got it right with me. They have embraced me as a non-traditional volunteer-they weren't afraid to find a role for me where I could help foster AFC's missions and goals. They connected me through the organization in so many ways."
U.S. Sen. Dick Durbin then presented attorney Michael Bauer with AFC's Civic Leadership Award. Durbin said that Bauer educated him on many aspects relating to HIV/AIDS over the course of their friendship.
"It's a friendship that goes beyond politics, and it's a friendship that Lasts to this day," Durbin said. "Michael had the heart and patience to take the time to educate this senate candidate and United States senator."
Bauer paid tribute to Dr. Ron Sable, who opened the first medical clinic in Chicago that provided services to people with HIV/AIDS, and realized that government assistance was needed to for services and research that had the disease-he was the first openly gay candidate to run for Chicago City Council.
"Many of us, myself included, Learned the importance of politics, the importance of getting people elected to office who were sensitive to our needs and would help us Legally and financially through their work and help in office" from Sable, Bauer said. "Every openly gay or Lesbian person elected to office walks in his footsteps."
PeLLer said that, exactly one year Later-on May 15, 2015-AFC would host a gala commemorating the anniversary.
Ignite Studios presented glass-blowing demonstrations over the course of the party.

Subject: Anniversaries; Nonprofit organizations; Acquired immune deficiency syndrome--AIDS

Company / organization: Name: AIDS Foundation of Chicago; NAICS: 813212

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: AFC event 'Ignites' group's 30th anniversary

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 29

Issue: 35

Pages: 9

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2014

Publication date: May 28, 2014

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1535253821

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/afc-event-ignites-groups-30th-anniversary/docview/1535253821/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 28, 2014

Last updated: 2023-09-15

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Summer staycations

Author: Barnidge, Mary Shen

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/summer-staycations/docview/1535253029/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Ibsen appears right next to Chekhov on the syllabus, but Calamity West's The Doll's House Project-subtitled "Ibsen is Dead"-isn't your classroom version so much as it's an exploration of domestic politics in 1989 America, with Interrobang Theatre Project's production continuing through June 8 (773-935-6875).

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=35&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=27&amp;date=2014-05-28&amp;atitle=Summer+staycations&amp;au=Barnidge%2C+Mary+Shen&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=35&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=27&amp;date=2014-05-28&amp;atitle=Summer+staycations&amp;au=Barnidge%2C+Mary+Shen&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   To some, "summer theater" calls to mind idyllic evenings Lounging on the grass with rabbits scampering through Arden forest or the Illyrian coast as crickets chirp "Hey nonny-nonny." For those who prefer to spend the warm months in pollen-free, temperature-controlled environments equipped with indoor plumbing and dry floors, however, Chicago's playhouses offer plenty of alternatives to the citroneLLa circuit-and it's not all the traditionally Lightweight fluff, either.
You can't get much more classic than Chekhov's Seagull-coincidentally set at a summer home in the Crimea when that region was a vacation resort for affluent aristocrats. This prototype for Downton Abbey-styled family sagas receives three seasonal reimaginings: Linchpin Theatre's Nina Variations proposes the two unhappy Lovers confessing their true feelings for one another instead of wasting their Lives in thwarted ambitions (June 6-22; www.Linchpintheatre.com).
Bridgeport's new theater company-appropriately christened The Bridge-debuts with Kestutis Makas' The Golf Ball (June 13-July 6; 312-307-5197), transposing the story from Czarist Russia to modern-day Chicago. Deep into the Dog Days, we finish with Sideshow's Midwest premiere of Aaron Posner's Stupid Fucking Bird (Aug. 16-Sept. 21; 773-8713000). Oh, and Lest we forget where these contemplations began, Piven Theater presents Ivanov (May 29-June 29; 847-866-8049), Chekhov's flagship play, replete with sex, violence and motifs utilized to greater success in his Later works.
Ibsen appears right next to Chekhov on the syllabus, but Calamity West's The Doll's House Project-subtitled "Ibsen is Dead"-isn't your classroom version so much as it's an exploration of domestic politics in 1989 America, with Interrobang Theatre Project's production continuing through June 8 (773-935-6875). Strindberg ranks just behind, with Dance of Death, in a new translation by Conor McPherson and starring Larry Yando and Kate Fry as the estranged spouses, extending at Writers Theater through Aug. 3 (847-242-6000). World Theater is represented by Max Frisch's The Arsonists, translated and adapted by Alastair Beaton, at Strawdog (Aug. 15-Sept. 27; 773-5289696), Albert Camus' Regarding the Just at Trap Door (June 5-July 5; 773-384-0494) and Ariel Dorfman's Death and the Maiden at Victory Gardens (June 20-July 13; 773-871-3000).
Shakespeare Leads the pack, though, and while you can see Chicago Shakespeare's action-comics Henry V at Navy Pier through June 15 (312-525-5600), adventuresome playgoers will want to check out the Othello at Gift Theatre, starring Kareem Bandealy as the Moor and Michael Patrick Thornton as lago (July 14Aug. 24; 773-283-7071). Fans of make-believe marital violence can also find plenty of it in Prologue Theatre's staging of Claire Luckham's Trafford Tanzi at Fizz Bar & Grill (June 6-28; www.prologuetheatreco.org).
If this heavy drama sounds Like too much excitement in sultry weather, you can relax with Black Ensemble's One Hit Wonders through June 29 and The Story of the Marvelettes July 20-Sept. 14 (773-769-4451) or the American Blues remount of Hank Williams: Lost Highway (July 25-Aug. 31; 773-404-7336). For maximum nostalgia, you can't beat Brigadoon, freshly staged at the Goodman by uberdirector Rachel Rockwell (June 27-Aug. 3; 312-3883800) or the Tribute to the Andrews Sisters revue at Theo Ubique (June 5-July 27; 800595-4849), where you can enjoy a period-menu dinner on-site. Speaking of dinner, hard-core foodies can revel in chow and romance at the repeat engagement of Lookingglass' Cascabel, starring legendary chef Rick BayLess, and served up in the Goodman's Owen studio (July 30-Aug. 24; 312-337-0665).
Summer's also a time for catching up-precisely the mission of Theater on the Lake (TOTL), which brings back the hits of the 2013-2014 season for one-week runs. While TOTL's home is being repaired and renovated, this year's roster-including Urban Theatre's First Class, Stage Left's A Day in the Death of Joe Egg and Strawdog's runaway hit Great Expectations-will be performed at various Locations on Chicago's North and South sides. (For a complete schedule, Log onto www.chicagoparkdistrict.com or phone 312-742-7994.)
Oh, but what if you fritter away the whole summer, only to discover Labor day Looming and you haven't seen the inside of a playhouse Lobby since Kinky Boots closed? No sweat! The weekend before you retire your white shoes offers Timeline's adaptation of Chaim Potok's adolescent-artist-in-crisis My Name is Asher Lev (Aug. 23-0ct. 18; 773-327-5252), for theatergoers prepared to plunge into autumnal brain-exercises, and Stage Left's midwest premiere of Nick Jones' dueling-pistols comedy The Coward (Aug. 30-0ct. 5; 773-975-8150,) for those wanting to hang on to carefree sunshine a Little Longer.

Subject: Summer; Theater; Theater companies

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Summer staycations

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 29

Issue: 35

Pages: 27

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2014

Publication date: May 28, 2014

Section: SUMMER ENTERTAINMENT: THEATER

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1535253029

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/summer-staycations/docview/1535253029/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 28, 2014

Last updated: 2023-09-15

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Lay Me Down Softly

Author: Barnidge, Mary Shen

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lay-me-down-softly/docview/1530138580/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [Billy Roche], you see, isn't content to treat us Like the rubes come to pay strangers for the illusions that are [Theo Delaney]'s stock-in-trade, but instead regards us as contemplative observers more interested in the backstage dynamics of its personnel-blustery Theo, the boss; sexy Lily, his box-office manager; swaggering Dean, the aforementioned Killer; gentle Peader, his trainer, and laconic Junior, now the resident handyman, but himself a former pro boxer before being sidelined by a foot injury....

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=32&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2014-05-07&amp;atitle=Lay+Me+Down+Softly&amp;au=Barnidge%2C+Mary+Shen&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=32&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2014-05-07&amp;atitle=Lay+Me+Down+Softly&amp;au=Barnidge%2C+Mary+Shen&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   THEATER REVIEW
Lay Me Down Softly
Playwright: Billy Roche
At: Seanachai Theatre Company at the Den, 1333 N. Milwaukee Ave.
Tickets: 866-811-4111; www.seanachai.org; $26-$30
Runs through: May 25
Let's make a few things clear, right at the start: First, this is the 1960s, and Delaney's Traveling Road Show is an honest operation, unlike some of the fly-by-night carnivals roaming rural Ireland today. Second, Theo Delaney's amusements include no freaks, animal acts or hoochie-coochie dancers, but strictly clean entertainment-anchored by boxing matches providing Local challengers an opportunity to take on "Killer Deano," the show's in-house slugger. This is not Rocky, however: All domestic violence is kept offstage and all sporting violence occurs while we aren't Looking.
Billy Roche, you see, isn't content to treat us Like the rubes come to pay strangers for the illusions that are Delaney's stock-in-trade, but instead regards us as contemplative observers more interested in the backstage dynamics of its personnel-blustery Theo, the boss; sexy Lily, his box-office manager; swaggering Dean, the aforementioned Killer; gentle Peader, his trainer, and laconic Junior, now the resident handyman, but himself a former pro boxer before being sidelined by a foot injury. What distinguishes this stop on their tour of the Wexford backwaters is not just the uneasy prospect of a village boasting both a marksman who threatens to deplete the shooting gallery's inventory of prizes and a retired middleweight champ seeking revenge for an excessive beating inflicted upon his cousin by an overenthusiastic Deano, but the unanticipated arrival of Emer, Theo's Long-estranged teenaged daughter, curious to Learn about the father who abandoned her mother on the road before her birth.
Over the course of the Lead-ups and walkaways surrounding the Big Fight (that we will only see in shadow), we watch an attraction grow between young Emer and shy Junior, their tentative overtures contrasting sharply with the tough-love affection of Lily and Theo, itself a muted version of the volatile marital practices typical of rootless communities. When Junior risks permanent disability after going six rounds in the ring, Emer begs him to Leave with her for a more peaceful Life-a plea that finds an unexpected advocate in the enigmatic Peader.
Roche's intimate scrutiny of the small lifechanging derisions affecting the destinies of common folk may seem drab to those with a Low tolerance for sentimentality, but under Kevin Christopher Fox's understated direction, the Seanachai ensemble conjures vivid personalities whose unspoken backstories (could Peader be Emer's real father? What Led Junior to his career in the ring?) inspire mystery and enchantment holding us rapt for the two hours that we view this sepia-toned portrait of a subculture that outsiders rarely see.

Subject: Theater

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Roche, Billy; Fox, Kevin Christopher

Company / organization: Name: Seanachai Theatre Co; NAICS: 711110

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Lay Me Down Softly

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 29

Issue: 32

Pages: 16

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2014

Publication date: May 7, 2014

Section: THEATER REVIEW

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Theater Review

ProQuest document ID: 1530138580

DocumentURL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lay-me-down-softly/docview/1530138580/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 7, 2014

Last updated: 2023-09-15

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

LGBT advocates praise VAWA guidelines

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lgbt-advocates-praise-vawa-guidelines/docview/1530137549/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: The coalition also announced that "the Office of Violence Against Women in the Department of Justice (OVW) announced a framework for analyzing the Limited conditions for services that are segregated or specific to gender and prohibited justifications based on overbroad assumptions or past practice." Lastly, the group urged other federal agencies to follow "the Lead of the Department of Justice and [apply] similar...

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=32&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=5&amp;date=2014-05-07&amp;atitle=LGBT+advocates+praise+VAWA+guidelines&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=32&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=5&amp;date=2014-05-07&amp;atitle=LGBT+advocates+praise+VAWA+guidelines&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   A coalition consisting of the Human Rights Campaign, the GLBTQ Domestic Violence Project, the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, the National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs (NCAVP), FORGE and the National Center for Transgender Equality issued a statement applauding "the Department of Justice for issuing strong implementing guidelines for the historic non-discrimination provisions in the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA)."
The statement adds that the guidelines guarantee "that LGBT survivors of violence receive equal services and treatment free from unlawful discrimination. ... These provisions mark the first ever explicit protections from discrimination for LGBT people under federal law."
The coalition also announced that "the Office of Violence Against Women in the Department of Justice (OVW) announced a framework for analyzing the Limited conditions for services that are segregated or specific to gender and prohibited justifications based on overbroad assumptions or past practice." Lastly, the group urged other federal agencies to follow "the Lead of the Department of Justice and [apply] similar interpretations of other Laws and regulations prohibiting discrimination based on sex, sexual orientation, and gender identity.

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Coalitions; Federal legislation; Sex discrimination; Gender equity

Business indexing term: Subject: Sex discrimination Gender equity

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: LGBT advocates praise VAWA guidelines

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 29

Issue: 32

Pages: 5

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2014

Publication date: May 7, 2014

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1530137549

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lgbt-advocates-praise-vawa-guidelines/docview/1530137549/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 7, 2014

Last updated: 2023-09-15

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Woman fights for right to 'walk while trans'

Author: Blickensderfer, Gretchen Rachel

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/woman-fights-right-walk-while-trans/docview/1518709233/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [Jones]-who describes herself as an "outspoken activist for human rights"-maintains that Project Rose paints all sex workers in Phoenix with the same brush. "They treat us Like we are all selling our bodies for drugs," she said. "That wasn't my story so I didn't take to it. I told them that I have a right to my own body. 'You cannot tell me what to do with my body' I said, so they rushed me through the program.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=28&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2014-04-09&amp;atitle=Woman+fights+for+right+to+%27walk+while+trans%27&amp;au=Blickensderfer%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=28&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2014-04-09&amp;atitle=Woman+fights+for+right+to+%27walk+while+trans%27&amp;au=Blickensderfer%2C+Gretchen+Rachel&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   On April 11, Monica Jones-a 29-year-old trans woman and student of the Arizona State University's School of Social Work-will enter the Municipal Court of Phoenix and fight for her constitutional right to be able to walk down a city street without being arrested on suspicion of prostitution.
Section 23-52 A of the Phoenix Municipal Code prohibits the "manifestation] [of] an intent to commit or solicit an act of prostitution." Essentially, the code states that if-in the opinion of a police officer-a person shows an intent to commit an act of prostitution, that person is guilty of a misdemeanor.
Such an opinion and subsequent arrest can be gauged on whether a person "beckons to or stops to engage passersby in conversation repeatedly" or "attempts to stop motor vehicles by hailing or waiving of arms or other bodily gesture" or that the person "inquires whether a potential patron, procurer or prostitute is a police officer."
The American Civil Liberties Union of Arizona agreed that the law gives Phoenix police broad discretionary powers. Should, for example, a female tourist travel to the city for the Super Bowl in 2015 wearing clothing that is appropriate for warm weather and if she attempts to hail a cab or wave to someone across the street or even ask a police officer for directions and that officer is of the opinion that she might be soliciting sex, she can be arrested.
Jones has maintained that if that woman is transgender, the chances of arrest are heightened. If she is a trans woman of color, she might as well bank on it.
It is as a trans woman of color that Jones said she has come under police scrutiny numerous times in Phoenix neighborhoods, whether just talking to a friend or simply going shopping. The social work student is more than 6 feet in height and sticks out in a crowd.
In May 2013, she had been part of a crowd at a rally protesting a Local initiative called Project Rose.
Created by ASU Associate Professor and Director of the Office of Sex Trafficking Intervention Research Dominique Roe-Sepowitz, MSW, Ph.D., Project Rose describes itself as an "alternative to arrest" of suspected sex-workers in Arizona. The project asserts that it addresses "the responsibility of Local government to enforce applicable laws in a fair and impartial manner."
In a typical Project Rose sting, suspects are swept up and transported to Bethany Bible Church in Phoenix. Without access to Legal counsel and in order to avoid prosecution, they are required to complete the "DIGNITY Diversion Program" which begins with a meeting with a caseworker and is followed by a course that involves counseling and education on topics including sexually transmitted diseases, drug abuse and domestic violence. Failure to complete the program can Lead to charges being filed in municipal court and possible jail time.
Jones said that Project Rose includes a week-long class of eight-hour days. "You sit in a room and they talk down to you," she said. "They talk about how bad it is to be a sex worker. There's a faith-based tone about it, Like you are violating a moral standard. It is definitely religiously based."
She added that 80 percent of the women in Project Rose don't complete the program. "They're not making any money while they're in it. There is no child care, sometimes they have no way to even get there. They are set up for failure," she said.
A member and organizer of the Phoenix chapter of the Sexworker Outreach Project (SWOP)-a national social-justice network dedicated to the fundamental human rights of sex workers and their communities-said Project Rose embodies a moral panic in the United States. Asking to be identified under an alias, "Sandra" maintained that the project sets out to undermine a person's autonomy and choices. "It's tied to and is seen as a model of an antitrafficking movement in Arizona that has a ton of money and resources going into it," she said. "It further criminalizes sex workers and makes people think their tax dollars are going to work by strengthening the moral fabric of the country."
A "fact sheet" provided to Windy City Times by Roe-Sepowitz claimed that Project Rose "is not a faith-based or faith-oriented event though the host church and the Archdiocese of Phoenix play supportive roles as part of the partnership." The sheet goes on to add that, out of every average $1,500 raised for the sting, "one thousand dollars is given to Bethany Bible Church to pay for food costs to feed all clients, staff, volunteers and law enforcement over 24 hours."
"There's a stipend of money that goes to Catholic charities," Sandra said. "It's advertised as a 'well-intentioned savior project'that gets a Lot of positive publicity. Dominique has been using Project Rose as a model to crack down on trafficking around the Super Bowl."
Jones-who describes herself as an "outspoken activist for human rights"-maintains that Project Rose paints all sex workers in Phoenix with the same brush. "They treat us Like we are all selling our bodies for drugs," she said. "That wasn't my story so I didn't take to it. I told them that I have a right to my own body. 'You cannot tell me what to do with my body' I said, so they rushed me through the program. They told me it was because I had a 'strong personality and we don't want you to rub off on the other girls.' But when a program Like this comes along, of course I'm going to stand up for my rights and everybody else's rights."
Prior to her taking part in the protest against Project Rose, Jones and Roe-Sepowitz had a discussion. "I was trying to get an understanding of where she [Roe-Sepowitz] was coming from," Jones said. "But we ended up just agreeing to disagree on the success rate of the program."
The day after the rally against Project Rose, Jones was arrested. She asserted that her arrest came about after she was seen by a police officer simply walking down the street. She was told that she was stopped because she Lived in a Low-income area known for prostitution. "So I was Like no matter where I walk, because I Live in a Low-income area, I'm always going to be a target," Jones said. "They only target women and trans women of color."
While she couldn't go into specific details, Jones alleged that at the time of her arrest, she was denied both access to an attorney and the ability to make a phone call. "They took my purse and my cell phone," she stated. "I said I'm innocent and I asked to speak to a lawyer. They said 'no you've got to go through this process' and 'well there's a lawyer in the next office.' They take me into the next office and it's a prosecutor. I asked to speak to a public defender and they said 'Oh we don't have that.'"
Jones said she was then informed of the charge of Manifestation of Prostitution and that she was going to be transported to the downtown jail. "As a trans woman, they put you in with the males if you haven't had reassignment surgery," she said. "That was scary for me so I just signed this paper and said I was going to fight it Later on."
Jones was eventually released. Four months later she received a Letter in the mail pressing formal charges against her. They are charges she is choosing to fight in Municipal Court. It is a fight in which Jones has found herself with a great deal of support. Organizations Like SWOP have helped to rally community and media attention around her case that was originally scheduled for March 14. "I have a great attorney," Jones said. "He's been supportive and he believes in what I'm doing."
The ACLU of Arizona is now involved. Legal Director Dan Pochoda said they are examining both the Manifestation of Prostitution law and Project Rose very closely.
"Project Rose does raise civil-liberties issues," Pochoda said. "To use the coercive technique of arrest as a way to bring people into the program when it should be a voluntary derision and then to not allow them to have lawyers when they get there even though by definition they are under arrest, we just think it raises a whole Lot of issues about the intermingling of the criminal system and so-called 'intervention.'"
"I don't know whether there is a church vs. state constitutional challenge yet," he continued. "There's often a gap between what good policy is and what is a proper way to treat people and what will be considered illegal and unconstitutional. The fact that they are Literally brought there under arrest by the Phoenix cops, then it does raise questions. The project claims that the criminal process is somehow just suspended and that people are out to do good and help out. It's just nonsense and you couldn't have a worse model than starting off with an arrest as a way to bring in clients."
The ACLU helped draft a brief for Jones' defense lawyer challenging the Manifestation of Prostitution law as a violation of both the Arizona and U.S. Constitutions. Specifically, the brief addresses rights of pure speech and expression protected by the First Amendment as well as asserting that the law overly criminalizes protected conduct such as "talking and waving of arms" and-in Jones' case-protected conduct that expresses gender identity.
"The First Amendment protects the expression of one's gender identity through clothing and other items consistent with that gender," the brief stated. "For a transgender individual. Like Ms. Jones, by wearing clothing and other items associated with a particular gender, one expresses their identification with that gender. Like clothing that symbolizes one's ethnic or religious beliefs, here Ms. Jones' 'tight-fitting black dress,' which prompted the officer to stop her, communicated the message that she is a woman and that the fact that she was assigned male at birth did not change her female identity."
The judge in the case postponed the hearing until April 11 to give prosecutors a chance to respond.
The brief also referenced The City of Chicago v. Morales-a gang-congregational ordinance that the Illinois Supreme Court ruled as unconstitutionally vague through its authorization of arbitrary and discriminatory enforcement.
"Local governments don't have the authority to enact ordinances that effectively provide absolute discretion to police officers to make moment-to-moment judgments on the streets as to whether the same acts by person A are crimes and the same acts by person B are not," Pochoda said. "The Manifestation of Prostitution Law allows the cops to target anyone they want. There are no Limiting factors. It makes being a trans woman a status crime."
Owen Daniel-McCarter, an attorney with the Transformative Justice Law Project of Illinois and the TransLife project of the Chicago House, told Windy City Times that he thinks the Jones case will highlight the pervasive profiling of trans individuals who have faced arrest across the country for "walking while trans."
"It seems Like the purpose of the Arizona Law is in line with other Laws recently enacted in Arizona that keep people out of public spaces who don't fit who lawmakers and voters want to see in their communities," he said. "It fits with the general trend of using criminalization to Legitimize discrimination."
Daniel-McCarter added that trans profiling in Chicago is such a pervasive problem that there is a police general order stating that officers cannot use someone's transgender identity as reasonable suspicion that they have engaged in prostitution. However, he agreed that there is a danger that a program Like Arizona's Project Rose could easily be repeated as a part of the continuing gentrification of Chicago's neighborhoods.
"Project Rose may come from a place that is a desire to do good," he said. "But actually it does exactly the opposite because there is not a systemic analysis of how profiling works, or the many, many reasons why people may engage in the sex trade and also the profiling of trans women and women of color. It's an example of how well-intended programs can backfire when they don't have that kind of analysis or the direct involvement in Leadership of people who have Lived the experience."
Jones has Lived the experience and the stigma that a trans woman walking down the street is a sex worker. "Coming from my position as a trans woman, going through the system and now fighting the system, it's hard to Leave that stigma behind," she said. "I get stopped at the grocery store, and they [the police] will say 'what are you doing here?' If I ask if I'm free to go, they start threatening an arrest for Manifestation."
Jones said that there's a great deal at stake for her April 11. She is worried that a Loss will not only affect her continuing education but be devastating to other trans women. Should she Lose, Jones pledged she will take her fight all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court. "Dominique [Roe-Sepowitz] told me that once you're a sex worker you're always a sex worker," she said. 'That's not how I view myself and I'm scared for other girls out there. People are Like 'well this can't happen to me' but it does happen to them. These girls need to be educated and get legal counsel and have the option to fight."
Pochoda said that he and the ACLU are prepared and committed to fighting alongside her. "We want to assist Monica and her attorney at every stage as Long as they want it," he said. "I would certainly want to be a part it this case as far as it goes in terms of its Legal challenges to the statute itself."
He added that his office has begun meetings to garner the necessary information that would allow them to take steps to reduce the impact of Project Rose.
Meanwhile Roe-Sepowitz told Windy City Times she was "unable to participate in any discussion about specific participants involved in my research work." The fact sheet she sent instead claimed: "All clients brought to Project ROSE are contacted by law enforcement because they are participating in activity that is illegal under the Phoenix City Code and/or Arizona Revised Statutes. Clients are all found in plain view engaging in illegal activity. The enforcement against this illegal activity is supported by Arizona Revised Statutes and is done in the same manner as every other viceenforcement activity addressing sex trafficking and prostitution."

Subject: Demonstrations & protests; Transgender persons; Arrests; Prostitution; Racial profiling

Location: Phoenix Arizona; United States--US

People: Jones, Monica

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Woman fights for right to 'walk while trans'

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 29

Issue: 28

Pages: 1,6

Number of pages: 2

Publication year: 2014

Publication date: Apr 9, 2014

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1518709233

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/woman-fights-right-walk-while-trans/docview/1518709233/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Apr 9, 2014

Last updated: 2023-09-13

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Is CeCe McDonald Free?

Author: Royster, Francesca

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/is-cece-mcdonald-free/docview/1510585781/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [CeCe McDonald]'s case has brought renewed awareness of the violence faced by transgender women of color. We are in the midst of an energized public conversation about transgender rights, due in part to McDonald's own activism, and that of supporters [Laverne Cox], Janet Mock, Leslie Feinberg, GLAAD, The Sylvia Rivera Law Project, and others. But there are still so many stories that need to be told in order for all of us to be free-including McDonald's forthcoming documentary.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=24&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=4&amp;date=2014-03-12&amp;atitle=Is+CeCe+McDonald+Free%3F&amp;au=Royster%2C+Francesca&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=24&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=4&amp;date=2014-03-12&amp;atitle=Is+CeCe+McDonald+Free%3F&amp;au=Royster%2C+Francesca&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   In January 2014, CeCe McDonald, hatecrime survivor and transgender activist, walked out of prison.
McDonald served 19 months for seconddegree manslaughter for stabbing the man who physically assaulted her and made transphobic, homophobic and racist slurs against her and her friends.
Since she was released, she's described her life on the outside as one of the celebration of everyday things: hugging her family without a prison guard watching, the everyday details of transitioning, getting her career back on track, and especially using her public platform to teach other people about transgender rights, the prison industrial complex, and, as she puts it, "to help people understand what it's like for me and for other trans women who are in prison, and people in general who have to deal with the policies and the martial law of prison."
She has used an experience of great trauma and injustice to bridge multiple identities and causes, to sculpt from her pain new knowledge, and to free others. This is most definitely the work of a free woman.
But is CeCe McDonald truly free? What is the quality of one's freedom, when transgender people are still at a high risk for hate crimes, harassment by the police, bullying violence and domestic violence? According to the National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs, in 2011, the year that McDonald was attacked, the murder rate of LGBTQ people was at an all-time high. There were 30 hate-related murders of LGBTQ people; 87% of those anti-LGBTQ murder victims were people of color and 40% were transgender women of color.
As Laverne Cox, actor, producer, activist and CeCe supporter, put it in an interview on Democracy Now!, for transgender people, 'The act of merely walking down the street is often a contested act, not only from the citizenry, but also from the police."
McDonald's case underscores the everyday brutality and violence faced by transgender people. Moreover, her case is part of a larger pattern of surveillance of and violence on bodies of color, made hypervisible by their perceived wrongness: the wrong gender, the wrong color, the wrong age, caught in the wrong neighborhood, too loud, too queer. I think here of murdered transgender women of color Lorena Escalera and Paige Clay. I think here of lost son and friend Trayvon Martin.
CeCe McDonald still isn't free when transgender people face brutality and discrimination by the healthcare system, ranging from lack of access, to violence by hospital staff, to ignorance by many doctors and medical schools of specific health concerns for transgender people. The 2001 film Southern Comfort documents the last year of the life of Robert Eads, a female-to-male transsexual who died of ovarian cancer. More than a dozen doctors turned down Eads's case because they were afraid that treating him would hurt their reputation. By the time that Eads found a doctor who would treat his cancer, it was too late.
CeCe McDonald still isn't free when the judicial system operates so unjustly. In her own case, the court ignored as admissible evidence her gender, race and class, even as she, a 23-year-old African American transgender woman, was assaulted by a 47-year-oId white man bearing a swastika tattoo. The court admitted as evidence the fact that McDonald had written one bad check, even as it dismissed the fact that her assailant had faced past criminal charges for assaulting his girlfriend. This also suggests a strong link between transphobia and the larger culture of violence against women-even when transphobic culture attempts to create a gulf between the experiences of cis-gendered women and transgender women.
McDonald's case has brought renewed awareness of the violence faced by transgender women of color. We are in the midst of an energized public conversation about transgender rights, due in part to McDonald's own activism, and that of supporters Laverne Cox, Janet Mock, Leslie Feinberg, GLAAD, The Sylvia Rivera Law Project, and others. But there are still so many stories that need to be told in order for all of us to be free-including McDonald's forthcoming documentary. Free CeCe, produced by Laverne Cox and Jacqueline Gares.
Can we rely on this public conversation about transgender people's lives and rights to continue without some serious cultural and political change? As Mock points out, "[Sjadly, the reality is that a black trans woman is not society's ideal subject.... We are not invited to contribute to the national conversation, we are told to stay in the dark, live our lives at night, never to be heard from unless we're found lying dead on a street corner."
As a queer, cis-gendered African American woman, I claim CeCe McDonald's and other transgender women of color's struggle to be free as linked to my own. We are on the edges of one another's battles. Her fight reveals the importance of coalition building for social change.
Sidebar "Can we rely on this public conversation about transgender people's lives and rights to continue without some serious cultural and political change?"
AuthorAffiliation Francesca Royster is a Professor of English at DePaul University, where she teaches courses on Shakespeare, Popular Culture, gender, race, sexuality and performance. Her books include Sounding Like a No-No: Queer Sounds and Eccentric Acts in the Post-Soul Era (University of Michigan Press, 2013) and Becoming Cleopatra: The Shifting Image of an Icon (Palgrave, 2003).

Subject: Hate crimes; Activists; Gays & lesbians

People: McDonald, CeCe

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Is CeCe McDonald Free?

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 29

Issue: 24

Pages: 4

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2014

Publication date: Mar 12, 2014

Section: Cultural Q's

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: Unite d States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 1510585781

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/is-cece-mcdonald-free/docview/1510585781/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 12, 2014

Last updated: 2023-09-13

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

LGBT rights among topics discussed at immigration summit

Author: Maxwell, Carrie

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lgbt-rights-among-topics-discussed-at-immigration/docview/1506787347/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: For the first time, the ICIRR summit featured a workshop focusing on the needs of the LGBT immigrant community.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=22&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=4&amp;date=2014-02-26&amp;atitle=LGBT+rights+among+topics+discussed+at+immigration+summit&amp;au=Maxwell%2C+Carrie&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=22&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=4&amp;date=2014-02-26&amp;atitle=LGBT+rights+among+topics+discussed+at+immigration+summit&amp;au=Maxwell%2C+Carrie&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Keeping families together, safe and strong was the theme of the fourth annual Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights (ICIRR) immigration integration summit at Benito Juarez High School Feb. 22.
Approximately 300 people attended the opening plenary and rally ahead of various workshops on LGBT rights, health care, tax issues, temporary visitors drivers Licenses, citizenship, fighting deportations, Labor organizing and immigration reform among others.
Featured speakers at the rally included ICIRR CEO Lawrence Benito, co-chairs Laura Garza of SEIL) Local 1 and Jose Luis Gutierrez of the National Alliance of Latin American and Caribbean Communities, Cook County Board President Toni PreckwinkLe, Sen. Dick Durbin, U.S. Reps. Jan Schakowsky and Luis Gutierrez, SEIU Local 1 President Tom Balanoff and "Fast for Families" founder and labor Leader ELiseo Medina. Vincente Del Real of the West Suburban Action Project, 10-year-old Liz Marquez and Maria Pesqueira of Mujeres Latinas en Acción provided testimonies.
Other dignitaries in attendance included Illinois state Sens. Greg Harris, Sam YingLing and Elizabeth "Lisa" Hernandez.
For the first time, the ICIRR summit featured a workshop focusing on the needs of the LGBT immigrant community. About 15 people attended the workshop featuring Michael Jarecki, United States immigration and nationality law attorney and secretary of the Chicago chapter of the American Immigration Lawyers Association; Keren Zwick, managing attorney for Heartland Alliance's National Immigrant Justice Center's LGBT Immigrant Rights Initiative and Adult Detention Project and a member of LGBT Committee of the Chicago chapter of the American Immigration Lawyers Association; and Roberto Romero-Perez, principal at the Perrom Law Office, LLC and LGBT committee chair of the Hispanic Lawyers Association of Illinois.
Marriage between same-sex binational couples, asylum, court proceedings, immigration detention and alternatives to immigration reform were the topics discussed.
Jarecki gave background information about the current status of immigration policy and explained how that affects the LGBT community in a post-DOMA ruling world. He noted there are about 12 million undocumented immigrants currently residing in the United States.
Until June of Last year, same-sex binational couples were discriminated against when it came to any family-based immigration process that allows spouses of U.S. dtizens or greencard holders getting benefits, said Jarecki. The Supreme Court ruling last June that found section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) unconstitutional, Jarecki explained, provided more than 1,000 federal benefits to same-sex married couples, including immigration access for same-sex binational married couples.
Jarecki noted that, in response to the Supreme Court DOMA ruling, the Obama administration has come out with guidelines that state that no matter where a same-sex binational couple currently resides, as Long as they got married where same-sex marriage is Legal they will be afforded the same protections under current immigration laws.
The DOMA ruling did not solve all of the problems for same-sex binational couples, Jarecki explained, because under current immigration Law undocumented people who are married to U.S. dtizens have to return to their home country and then prove they need to return to the States due to extreme hardship. He added that for LGBT individuals who might have fled anti-gay countries, returning to those countries would put their Lives in jeopardy.
"The burden of proof is on the applicant to the U.S. government that they are married in good faith and they aren't doing it just as friends or to help someone get their green card and that is true for every couple," said Jarecki. "At the same time, there is a Lot of education that is needed for the agency that handles green card applications because not all LGBT people might be out to their family or employers and/or they might not have the commingling of their Lives that heterosexual binational couples have such as their Living space and/or finances which raises red flags during the application process."
Zwick spoke about the Uniting America Families Act (UAFA), which did not make it into the immigration bill that the Senate recently passed. Many people in the LGBT community were upset that the UAFA (the LGBT portion of the immigration bill) was not included, Zwick noted, and walked away from the immigration issue. He added there are many reasons why the LGBT community should still care about immigration policy because there are still provisions in the Senate bill that will help LGBT undocumented immigrants.
Romero-Perez spoke about the asylum process, noting that asylum can be granted for LGBT people who have been victims of persecuWINDY tion in their home country and that there is a one-year deadline for those seeking asylum, although there are some exceptions to that rule.
Zwick said another factor involved with the asylum process involves getting help from Legal experts who are familiar with and friendly to the LGBT community, while Roberto-Perez emphasized spreading the word within communities. Zwick noted that fewer than 30 percent of asylum seekers win their cases each year.
Another avenue for all undocumented immigrants is through the courts, said Jarecki: "If you've found yourself in immigration court and you've been here for a very Long time in an undocumented status ... you can claim to an immigration judge that you have a qualifying relative including same-sex spouses and that by being sent back it would cause hardship to the person's family here in the U.S. This is called cancellation of removal." This is very hard because the undocumented immigrant has to prove that s/he has been here for 10 years; however, if s/he wins, that person is granted a green card right away.
Zwick explained that there are other remedies already in effect, including Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), which is for the DREAMers (those involved with the DREAM Act), and U visas for victims of violent crimes/ domestic violence. Jarecki noted that there is also the option of prosecutorial discretion to stop deportations if the undocumented person falls under numerous priority categories and this depends on the judge who hears their case and/or where the person Lives.
Immigration detention is also an issue, especially for LGBT people who make up a disproportionally Large number of detainees, said Zwick.
If immigration reform does not happen there are some alternatives that can be used, Zwick noted. One of these involves states choosing to ignore current immigration policies and stop the detention and deportation process, said Zwick. Romero-Perez explained that Lawenforcement officials across the country have assigned a Low priority to detention of undocumented immigrants as a way around the law.
Zwick's opinion is that Illinois has the best model on a state Level for immigration reform, especially regarding the LGBT community. That, he added, is vital to vote for pro-immigration reform candidates.
See www.idrr.org for more information.

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Conferences; Immigration policy; Noncitizens

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: LGBT rights among topics discussed at immigration summit

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 29

Issue: 22

Pages: 4

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2014

Publication date: Feb 26, 2014

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1506787347

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lgbt-rights-among-topics-discussed-at-immigration/docview/1506787347/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 26, 2014

Last updated: 2023-09-12

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

CALENDAR

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calendar/docview/1501616253/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Lipstick and Dynamite, Piss and Vinegar: The First Ladies of Wrestling" Screening 11th Annual Dyke Delicious presents Lipstick and Dynamite profiles the amazing and often excruciating history of female wrestling from its origins as a circus side-show in the 1930's (banned in many states due to indecency), to it's "hey-day" in the 1950's and 60's where it soared in popularity.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=20&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=28&amp;date=2014-02-12&amp;atitle=CALENDAR&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=20&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=28&amp;date=2014-02-12&amp;atitle=CALENDAR&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Wed., Feb. 12
Love Gives Me Hope Putting focus on the LGBTQ suicide prevention initiative of Hope For The Day - a not for profit focusing on suicide prevention by using art & music as a defense mechanism. State Representative Greg Harris will speak. Food, beverage, music and photo area will be available. RSVP for free via the Eventbrite link below. 5:30pm - 8:30pm MB Financial Bank, Lakeview Branch, 3179 N Clark St., Tickets: http://hftd.eventbrite.com
"Lipstick and Dynamite, Piss and Vinegar: The First Ladies of Wrestling" Screening 11th Annual Dyke Delicious presents Lipstick and Dynamite profiles the amazing and often excruciating history of female wrestling from its origins as a circus side-show in the 1930's (banned in many states due to indecency), to it's "hey-day" in the 1950's and 60's where it soared in popularity. Director Ruth Leitman will be in attendance to host a post-screening Q&A with the audience. 6:30pm screening time // $10 admission & FREE for CCC students, faculty & staff 6:30pm - 8:30pm Columbia College Chicago, Hokin Hall, 623 S. Wabash, Chicago, IL, (773) 293-1447, http://events.colum. edu/event/lipstick_and_dynamite_piss_ and_vinegar_the_first_ladies_of_wres http://http://e vents, co lum.edu/event/ lipstick_and_dynamite_piss_and_vinegar_the_first_ladies_of_wrestling_screening_1748#.UuKjumTnYlU
Chicago Theatre Week Celebration of Chicago's world-class theatre scene with more than 75 productions sampling range of theatrical offerings in Chicago. Through Feb. 16. $15 and $30 tickets (or less!) 7:00pm Various theaters http://www. chicagotheatreweek.com
Holly Hughes and contributors Animal Acts is a collection of animal-themed monologues with commentaries by leading scholars. As one of the infamous "NEA Four," Hughes was denounced on the floor of the Senate 7:00pm Women & Children First Bookstore 5233 N Clark St http:// www.womenandchildrenfirst.com
GenderQueer Chicago Grassroots, peer-led group that works to create safe spaces for all of us to talk about, think about, explore, and express gender. They are open to those who wish to talk and think about gender. GenderQueer Chicago meets every Wednesday evening. Drop in. Info from Em VanderLinden, Community and Cultural Programs Coordinator, atevanderlinden@ centeronhalsted.org or by phone. 7:00pm - 9:00pm Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted 773-472-6469 ext. 456 http://www. GenderQueerChicago.blogspot.com
Thursday, Feb. 13
Lynn Povich: The Good Girls Revolt Fortyfour years ago, 46 female employees won a landmark case against Newsweek for sex discrimination. Hear more about it from Lynn Povich, one of the original "Newsweek 46." $10 for event only; $25 for event plus a copy of the book. For tickets, call 312-782-3902, x224 or go online. 5:30pm Kirkland & Ellis LLP 6th floor Conference Centre, 300 N. La Salle Dr., Chicago Tickets: http://womenemployed. org/good-girls-revolt
Parents of transgender individuals For decades, PFLAG has been proud to be a resource for transgender and gender nonconforming people, their families, and friends. For more info: parentsoftransgender@pflagillinois.org 7:00pm Center on Habted 3656 N Habted http://community.pflag.org/transgender
Friday, Feb. 14
Intersex Chicago Intersex people physically differ from the "standard" male and female. Intersex Chicago is a safe, confidential meetup for all intersex people and their allies in the Chicago area. Meet other intersex people. Make new friends. Find out more about intersex. Explore and celebrate your difference. intersexchicago@ gmaiLcom 6:30pm Center on Habted 3656 N Habted http://www.centeronhalsted.org
Queer Fest America Benefits The Crib The Crib is a LGBTQ homeless youth shelter. Hosted by Lair Scott with tooth_eye, Psycho Sister Stardust The David Bowie Tribute Band, MoxieMotive, Tutu & the Pirates, and Spizzarri $5 at door 21+ w/ID 7:00pm - 2:00am Underground Lounge 952 W. Newport Ave. https://www.facebook.com/events/231409817038791/
Oak Park Area Lesbian and Gay Association 2nd Friday of the month potluck dinner . As usual, bring a dish to share and your own drinks. 7:00pm private home https://www.facebook.com/events/202 319903297202/?ref=2&ref_dashboard_ filter=upcoming
The Vagina Monologues Eve Ensler's epic taboo-breaker has become a classic, leading to a worldwide movement to stop domestic violence and support and encourage women all over the world. Chicago Danztheatre Ensemble and Fulton Street Collective present multi-disciplinary and innovative staging to revolutionize the work with new monologues, an art exhibit, contemporary dance...and even an aria. $10 in advance/$15 at the door includes a drink ticket. Gallery opens 7 p.m. Rarformance 8 p.m. Info: info@danztheatre.org 8:00pm Fulton Street Collective, 2000 W Fulton, Chicago, IL 60612 773-486-8261 http://www.danztheatre. org Tickets: http://www.brownpapertickets.com
Saturday, Feb. 15
Frontrunners/Frontwalkers Chicago Fun Run/Walk A club for lesbians, gay men, bisexuab, transexuals and friends who are interested in running and walking together along Chicago's great open lakefront, meeting twice weekly, on Saturdays at 9am and Tuesdays at 6:30pm 9:00am Totem Pole in Lincoln Park https://www. fecebook.com/groups/52950773133/
Sunday, Feb. 16
Ethical Humanist Society of Chicago Meeting every Sunday from 10:30 to noon, featuring a speaker on a variety of topics-personal ethics, education, psychology, politics, philosophy, medical care, equal rights, the environment, etc., followed by a coffee hour. Free and open to the public. Abo Sunday School, weddings, service projects, book group, film group. 10:30am - 12:00pm Ethical Humanist Society of Chicago 7574 N. Lincoln Ave. Skokie , IL 60077 http://www.ethicalhuman.org
Scott Duff hosts LGBT radio talk show LGBT-specific talk show "Out Chicago" on politics, entertainment, celebrity gossip 11:00am - 1:00pm WCPT 820 AM
Tuesday, Feb. 18
Frontrunners/ Frontwalkers Chicago A club for lesbians, gay men, bisexuab, transexuab and friends who are interested in running and walking together along Chicago's great open lakefront, meeting twice weekly, on Saturdays at 9am and Tuesdays at 6:30pm 6:30pm Totem Pole in Lincoln Park https://www.fecebook. com/groups/52950773133/
Quare Square: pen mic and performance for Queer Womyn of Color and allies. Participate in the larger queer literary community by providing a nurturing space for creative performance on the south side of Chicago. Every 2nd Tuesday of the month. 7:30pm - 10:00pm Jeffery Pub 7041 S Jeffery Blvd https://www.fecebook.com/ pages/Quare-Square/463316023758355
Wed., Feb. 19
Open House at The Hartwell Chicagoland Methodist Senior Services is the most extensive senior services network on Chicago's north side. For over 115 years, CMSS has faithfully served older adults in Chicago by continuing to develop new programming that meets the changing needs of the population. CMSS' key services include assisted and supportive living, dementia care, rehabilitation services and senior home care. The organization abo offers home repair services, subsidized housing and outpatient wellness services to Chicago area seniors. Learn more at www.cmsschicago.org 4:00pm - 6:00pm 5520 N. Paulina St., Chicago http://www. cmsschicago.org/events.aspx
Robin Kelly Congresswoman, Illinois' 2nd District, reception in support of LGBT rights and equality and Kelly's re-election bid for Congress. $75., Host$300., Chair$750. RSVP by phone or toFinance@ RobinKellyforCongress.com. 5:30pm Progress Bar 3359 N Habted 312-8548018
GenderQueer Chicago GenderQueer Chicago is a grassroots, peer-led group that works to create safe spaces for all of us to talk about, think about, explore, and express gender. They are open to those who wish to talk and think about gender. GenderQueer Chicago meets every Wednesday evening from 7:00 to 9:00PM. 7:00pm - 9:00pm Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted http://www.centeronhabted.org
Drag Show Three professional Chicago stars and two RuPaul's Drag Race stars, Detox and The Princess. Benefits PFLAG. 8:00pm Mohr Student Center, 555 N. Sheridan Road, Lake Forest College, Lake Forest, IL 60045 http://www.lakeforest.edu/live/ events/475281-drag-show
Saturday, Feb. 22
Ethical Humanist Society of Chicago Meeting Glory vs. the Wolves: A staged reading to raise awareness about rape culture Rachel Bykowski, author. Explores rape culture through the eyes of four women who are held captive and never allowed to learn of the outside world.Co-sponsored by 20% Theatre Company Chicago. Suggested $3 donation benefits the Women's Voices Fund. 7:30pm Women & Children First Bookstore 5233 N Clark St http:// www.womenandchildrenfirst.com
Thesday, Feb. 25
Joan Rivers Iconic comedian, CEO, talkshow host, actress, author and Second City alumna Joan Rivers. Free. Theater seating is limited. On-line reservations open Jan. 31 for last event of 2013-14 series on comedy and improv. 6:00pm Film Row Cinema of Columbia College Chicago 1104 S Wabash, 8th Floor http:// www.colum.edu/conversations
Friday, Feb. 28
Developing Safe & Supportive Schools for LGBTQ Youth Study LGBTQ issues in a school context. Fee $0. Photo ID require. Doors 8am. Workshop 8:30am3pm. Further info: Nancy Mullen, nancy. mullen@youth-outlook.org or Deb Carr, dcarr@360youthservices.org. Register by Feb. 21 online. 8:00am - 3:00pm Alcatel-Lucent, 1960 Lucent Lane, Naperville, IL 60563 Tickets: http://bit.ly/lbBKah5
Kiss for a DIFFArence" Winter Ball Celebrate making a difference in the Chicago community in support of area service agencies that provide direct services, preventative education and outreach to people who are HIV-positive, living with AIDS or at risk for infection. The event welcomes local design professionab and enthusiasts for a scintillating evening of cocktaib, hors d'oeuvres, music and dancing. 6:30pm - 9:30pm Center on Habted 3656 N Halsted http://www.diffechicago. org/home.html
Saturday, March 1
Lavender University: Lourdes Torres Making Familia from Scratch: Towards a History of Latina Lesbian Organizing in Chicago. Discusses efforts to name Latina lesbians as agents of change and active subjects of a multiracial history of grassroots organizing. Lavender University is a 9-month lecture series featuring top academics and activists in the LGBTQ community. Lavender University is a 9-month lecture series featuring top academics and activists in the LGBTQ community, working on a wide range of research topics and interests. It is sponsored by Windy City Times and Center on Habted. 11:00am - 1:00am Center on Halsted 3656 N Halsted http://www.windycitymediagroup. com/lgbt/Lavender-University-launchesLGBTQ-programs/43375.html
Sidebar ALL ABOUT EVE
Friday, Feb. 14
Danztheatre and the Fulton Street Collective will present Eve Ensler's Vagina Monologues at the collective. (Note: Ensler will not be present.)

Subject: Non-binary gender

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: CALENDAR

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 29

Issue: 20

Pages: 28

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2014

Publication date: Feb 12, 2014

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 104969 8X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 1501616253

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calendar/docview/1501616253/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 12, 2014

Last updated: 2023-09-12

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Rachelle Brown works on LGBT religious issues

Author: Forman, Ross

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rachelle-brown-works-on-lgbt-religious-issues/docview/1477199285/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "It's a real interesting mix of people who are involved [with the church, driven by] their passion for this real openness and this real spiritual path mission," she said. "What we're asking people to believe is faith and spirituality. They're doing it and we're doing things in a radical way."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=14&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2014-01-01&amp;atitle=Rachelle+Brown+works+on+LGBT+religious+issues&amp;au=Forman%2C+Ross&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=14&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2014-01-01&amp;atitle=Rachelle+Brown+works+on+LGBT+religious+issues&amp;au=Forman%2C+Ross&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   In high school, Rachelle Brown was, admittedly, "a bit of a religious fanatic."
But when she came out as a Lesbian, she went away from religion and faith. In fact, her "relationship with religion went farther than south," she said, laughing.
It took her about 12 years to find her way back to religion, and that she did.
She is now the provisional pastor of achurch4me, ordained with Metropolitan Community Churches (MCC).
Brown, a Chicago resident, previously was the interim pastor at MCC ILLiana in Northwest Indiana during 2008-2011. She has master's degrees in both divinity and communications and is now working toward a Ph.D. in theology, ethics and human sciences at Chicago Theological Seminary.
"I enjoy preaching and enjoy being with people, but I really feel led to teach," she said. "I particularly want to give hope to young people who are trying to Live a Life of faith."
Brown is a member of American Academy of Religion and a board member for Other Sheep, an organization reaching out to sexual minorities throughout the world.
"Like many who are LGBTQ and just walk away from the church, that's what I did in my Late 20s," she said.
But in August 2001, she walked into an MCC church in St. Louis, attending admittedly, "as a scoffer."
She was immediately hooked. "When I walked in, I thought, this is amazing," she said.
Two years Later, she was in seminary, doing volunteer ministry.
In 2003, Brown started doing chaplaincy work with perpetrators of domestic violence.
She served in a United Church of Christ (UCC) church for a year, and then switched to MCC.
"I kept thinking, 'This is crazy, being an out Lesbian, trying to navigate the world of reli- gion and faith.' That was because, I felt, in so many places that I turned, especially in chaplaincy, it was Like I had to keep coming out of the closet over and over again.
"But with MCC, it has allowed me to just be myself, not have to name which team I am on at any given time. I could just Live a Life of spirituality, a Life of faith, and not feel Like I had to apologize to one group or the other in order to be a person of faith and also be an open Lesbian.
'That has fueled me in so many ways."
Truly, Brown has walked an interesting past decade-and she agrees.
"It has been a non-traditionaL path," she said.
Brown was working at a marketing agency years ago and then one day told her boss that she was going into the seminary, into minis- try-and gave her resignation.
His reply, with a smile: "Is it so bad that you have to go work for God?"
Brown Laughed, too, and told him, "I'm go- ing to take my chances. It's not for the pay- check, but [rather], for the peace of mind at the end of the day.
'That still fuels me today."
Brown's achurch4me is Located in Rogers Park, its home since 2012, after a previous Location in Boystown.
About 95 percent of its 50 members are LG- BTQ, Brown said.
"When I talk to open and affirming churches, they say that they welcome gay people. I say that's fabulous-and we're gay and we wel- come straight people. That's the big differ- ence," she said, Laughing.
About 75 percent of its members are male, with a mix of white (about 60 percent), Afri- can-American and Hispanic. The female mem- bers are are predominantly African-American and Latina. Members come from Hyde Park on the South Side to the northern suburb of Skokie.
"It's a real interesting mix of people who are involved [with the church, driven by] their passion for this real openness and this real spiritual path mission," she said. "What we're asking people to believe is faith and spirituality. They're doing it and we're doing things in a radical way."
Her church supports World AIDS Day and Transgender Day of Remembrance, among other LGBT-driven events. "There is the queer holy day calendar," she said. "It's just who we are, what we're about."
Brown spoke at the March on Springfield for Marriage Equality in October.
'That was such an incredible moment," she said, "and marriage equality is huge.
"What marriage equality does is, it begins to Level the field socially."
Brown said that she will take a portion of the fees for weddings at her church, start- ing in June, and put it into marriage equality support for other states-"because we fought Long and hard, and know what it's Like, and want to help the next state," she said.
Michael McBride, who has participated in Windy City Gay Idol, is the church's music minister.

Subject: Clergy; Religious congregations; Personal profiles; Gays & lesbians; Same sex marriage; Equality

Location: Springfield Illinois; United States--US

People: Brown, Rachelle

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Rachelle Brown works on LGBT religious issues

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 29

Issue: 14

Pages: 1,10

Number of pages: 2

Publication year: 2014

Publication date: Jan 1, 2014

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1477199285

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rachelle-brown-works-on-lgbt-religious-issues/docview/1477199285/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jan 1, 2014

Last updated: 2023-09-11

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Looking back: Sports & Entertainment 2013

Author: Davis, Andrew

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/looking-back-sports-amp-entertainment-2013/docview/1474344542/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Oh, the "Horror": The third season of the FX show American Horror Story-called American Horror Story: Coven-featured actresses Patti LuPone and Angela Bassett. Producer [Ryan Murphy] (who also helms GLee) tweeted, "Two legends are joining the cast of American Horror Story: Coven -Oscar nominee Angela Bassett and [Tony] winner Patti LuPone!" LuPone and Bassett joned Sarah Paulson, Evan Peters and Frances Conroy as well as new actors Kathy Bates and Gabourey Sidibe (Precious).

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=13&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=17&amp;date=2013-12-25&amp;atitle=Looking+back%3A+Sports+%26amp%3B+Entertainment+2013&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=13&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=17&amp;date=2013-12-25&amp;atitle=Looking+back%3A+Sports+%26amp%3B+Entertainment+2013&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   -"Heart" felt: HBO announced that it will adapt the Tony-winning Larry Kramer play The Normal Heart. The movie will star Julia Roberts and Mark Ruffalo in the key roles, along with out actor Matt Borner (White Collar). GLee creator Ryan Murphy will direct the film, which will feature Roberts as Dr. Emma Brookner, the paraplegic physician who treats several of the earliest victims of the disease. Ruffalo portrays Ned Weeks; Borner plays Felix Turner, a reporter who becomes Weeks' Lover. The Normal Heart will run in 2014.
-She runs the world: This was arguably the year of Beyonce: She went on tour, performed at halftime of the Super BowL (which had a notable power failure in the second half), premiered her HBO documentary , caused a "controversy" over possible Lip-synching at the presidential inauguration; and (without any fanfare) released a self-titled CD that broke a record on iTunes.
-Foster wild: Actress/director Jodie Foster raised some eyebrows at the 70th annual Golden Globes. In an speech of the Cedi B. DeMille Award that some Loved and others derided, she thanked her ex-partner and co-parent, Cydney Bernard (they have two sons), but added that she has Lived virtually her entire Life in the public eye and wanted to keep some things private.
-"Dead" resurrected: Lifetime dropped LGBT fave Drop Dead Diva after four seasons. However, fan reaction over the show (about an attorney played by Brooke Elliot) resulted in the channel bringing it back.
-Soy it isn't so: Former pro football player Kwame Harris faces felony domestic violence charges for allegedly beating an ex-boyfriend in the parking Lot of a Menlo Park, Calif., restaurant after arguing over, among other things, soy sauce. Harris, 31, was found guilty of misdemeanor domestic violence, battery and assault.
-Being Frank: Out R&B singer Frank Ocean won two Grammys at the 55th annual Grammy Awards that were aired on CBS Feb. 10. Pro-LGBT group fun. won Song of the Year for "We Are Young" (which features Janelle Monae).
-All the way Clive: Legendary music producer Clive Davis-who signed Whitney Houston and Bruce Springsteen, among many others- came out as bisexual in a new book. In his new memoir, The Soundtrack of My Life, Davis details Long-term, monogamous relationships with men for the past two decades. Davis writes that his first same-sex encounter was during "the era of Studio 54" and wrote that being with a man provided "welcome relief."
-Going Gaga: It was an interesting year for entertainer and LGBT icon Lady Gaga. She had to cancel part of her tour after injuring her hip. However, she stayed in the news, thanks in part to her CD (which didn't sell as well as some hoped/expected) as well as continuing colorful award-show appearances and performances.
-Neil appeal: Openly gay actor Neil Patrick Harris again endeared himself to audiences, through his show How I Met Your Mother and by hosting the Tonys (for the fourth time in five years) and Emmys.
-Piano man: Buzz swelled around the HBO movie Behind the Candelabra, which was based on the Late Liberace's autobiographical novel, as soon as production was announced. Premiering May 26, the movie (which starred Michael Douglas as Liberace and Matt Damon as his muchyounger Lover Scott Thorson) has won numerous awards, and will Likely increase its haul in 2014 at the Screen Actors Guild Awards and the Golden Globes.
-Miller time: Actor Wentworth Miller came out as gay in a Letter he wrote denouncing Russia's anti-gay law. Miller, known for his role on the television show Prison Break, declined an invitation to participate in the St. Petersburg International Film Festival. In his Letter, Miller wrote, "Thank you for your kind invitation ... as a gay man, I must decline." Miller went on to call the atmosphere in Russia toward LGBT people and their allies "in no way acceptable."
-Star turn: Lesbian actress Jane Lynch received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. The actress received star number 2,505 at the unveiling Sept. 4, accompanied by GLee creator Ryan Murphy. Murphy said of Lynch, "She is the hardest-working person on the set... she makes everybody better and everybody happier. She is one of the comedy greats in our business-a true class act."
-The hills are alive: NBC aired The Sound of Music Live! Dec. 5, with Carrie Underwood as Maria von Trapp. (It followed the 1959 Broadway production of the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical rather than the movie.) Reaction was mixed, to say the Least, but it was a ratings gold mine for NBC.
-I get a kick out of you: Abby Wambach, one of the most successful and decorated female soccer players in history, confirmed Wednesday, Oct. 9, that she is gay-and that she married fellow soccer player Sarah Huffman. They married Oct. 5 in Hawaii.
-What a Card: Pro-LGBT negatively reacted to the opening of the film Ender's Game-primarily because anti-gay activist and former board member of the National Organization for Marriage Orson Scott Card, 62, was a credited producer on Lionsgate Entertainment's adaptation of Card's sci-fi novel. At Last report, the film had yet to break even from its $110-miLLion budget.
-Shocked, I tell you: Singer Michelle Shocked-who came out as bisexual in Outlines newspaper (which purchased and merged with Windy City Times in 2000) two decades ago- told a San Francisco crowd that "God hates fags" and that she Lives in fear of same-sex marriage. In the wake of that, her tour was cancelled. She reportedly tried to have the anti-gay rant erased from YouTube.
-Here's "Looking" at you: HBO shot a pilot for Looking, a series about gay thirtysomethings in San Francisco. The script was written by Michael Lannan, who helped produce Remember Me, and Interior. Leather Bar., a San Franciscobased experimental gay flick by Travis Matthews. In addition, it stars Jonathan Groff, the openly gay actor famous for playing Jesse St. James on the TV show GLee. The show will debut in January 2014.
-Magic moment: Basketball legend Magic Johnson's gay son went public with his romance. Earvin Johnson III, one of Magic's three children, stepped out hand-in-hand with an unidentified boyfriend on Los Angeles' Sunset Strip.
-Making history: The NBA's Jason Collins made history by coming out as gay-the first time an NBA player has done so while still actively playing. Collins, a center, finished the 2012-13 season with the Washington Wizards, and has also played for the Boston Celtics, Minnesota Timberwolves, New Jersey Nets, Atlanta Hawks, and Memphis Grizzlies. Collins made the announcement in an interview with Sports Illustrated.
-Novel idea: Kevin Keller, the gay character introduced in the pages of Archie Comics in 2011, has his own novel. The hardcover young adult novel, simply titled Kevin, is from Penguin Books. The novel is written by comic and children's book author Paul Kupperberg, who also penned the popular Life With Archie issue that depicted an adult Keller marrying his partner.
-Ups and downs: NBC cancelled the Broadway-centered show Smash after two seasons, and also dropped The New Normal, the Ryan Murphyproduced show about a gay couple. Meanwhile, ABC renewed Modern Family, Once Upon a Time, Scandal, Suburgatory, Grey's Anatomy, Castle and Nashville, but cancelled Body of Proof, Red Widow and the comedy Happy Endings.
-Oh, the "Horror": The third season of the FX show American Horror Story-called American Horror Story: Coven-featured actresses Patti LuPone and Angela Bassett. Producer Ryan Murphy (who also helms GLee) tweeted, "Two legends are joining the cast of American Horror Story: Coven -Oscar nominee Angela Bassett and Tony winner Patti LuPone!" LuPone and Bassett joned Sarah Paulson, Evan Peters and Frances Conroy as well as new actors Kathy Bates and Gabourey Sidibe (Precious). It's been renewed for a fourth season.
-Returning: Ellen DeGeneres confirmed that she'll host the Academy Awards for the second time in 2014. She previously hosted the 2007 Oscars, which earned her an Emmy nomination. The show will air March 2.
-I'm coming out: Actress Raven-Symone came out, voicing her support on marriage equality via Twitter Aug. 2 and saying she's thrilled to finally be able to wed. She tweeted, "I can finally get married! Yay government! So proud of you."
-Orange you glad?: One of the biggest shows of the year was the Netflix series Orange Is the New Black. The black comedy focuses on Piper Chapman (Taylor Schilling), an engaged woman Living in New York City who is sentenced to 15 months in a women's federal prison for transporting a suitcase full of drug money to her former girlfriend-an international drug smuggler. Trans actress Laverne Cox was a particular standout on the show.
-Mello Bello: Actress Maria Bello revealed that she is in a Lesbian relationship in a New York Times essay Dec. 1, making an appeal to be embraced for her own "modern family." Bello wrote that she struggled with revealing to her 12-year-old son her relationship with a woman who happened to be her closest friend. However, she also urged a broader definition of sexuality and Love than what currently passes for so da I norms.
Read the entire roundup online at www. WindyCityMediaGroup.com.

Subject: Year in review; Sports; Entertainment

Location: United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Looking back: Sports & Entertainment 2013

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 29

Issue: 13

Pages: 17

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: Dec 25, 2013

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1474344542

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/looking-back-sports-amp-entertainment-2013/docview/1474344542/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Dec 25, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-11

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Looking back The year in national news

Author: Davis, Andrew

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/looking-back-year-national-news/docview/1474344465/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: -Gates way: More than two years after playing an influential role in the [Obama] administration's repeal of "Don't Ask, Don't Tell," former U.S. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates was named president-elect of the Boy Scouts of America. The Boy Scouts voted in May to approve a resolution removing any ban on members based on sexual orientation alone, although gay Scout Leaders are still prohibited. The policy change is slated to take effect Jan. 1, 2014.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=13&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2013-12-25&amp;atitle=Looking+back+The+year+in+national+news&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=13&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2013-12-25&amp;atitle=Looking+back+The+year+in+national+news&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   It was a year that saw some astonishing examples of progress, whether Legislative (more than a half-dozen approving marriage equality) or simply physical (Diana Nyad's swimming feat). Here's the skinny on what transpired in the LGBT community nationally in 2013:
-Approved: In 2013, eight states approved marriage equality-including Rhode Island, Delaware, Minnesota, New Jersey, Hawaii, New Mexico, Utah and Illinois- bringing the total to 18, along with the District of Columbia.
-Stonewall folds: National Stonewall Democrats Executive Director Jerame Davis said in January that his organization would cease operations through at Least the end of this year after it failed to bridge a $30,000 budget gap. Davis said that when he took over in 2011, there were "$1,800 in the bank and a boat Load of debt."
-Four more years: President Obama and Vice President Joe Biden were reinaugurated Jan. 21. The Lesbian and Gay Band Association (LGBA) once again participated in the inaugural parade-the only LGBT group invited to do so. Also, 44-year-old Richard Blanco was the first Latino, first gay man and youngest person to read an original poem at the inaugural ceremony. During his speech, Obama mentioned Stonewall and marriage equality.
-Baldwin makes history: Tammy Baldwin, D-Wis., was sworn in as a U.S. senator Jan. 3 in Washington, D.C.-becoming the first member of the LGBT community to be a part of the national Legislative body. After her swearing-in, Baldwin ran into former GOP vice-presidential candidate Paul Ryan (who's also from Wisconsin)-and they gave each other a big hug, with Ryan saying, "Congratulations!"
-Hagel controversy: Then-Defense Secretary nominee Chuck Hagel prompted controversy over anti-gay remarks he made 14 years ago when he characterized then-Defense Secretary nominee James Hormel's openness about his sexual orientation as an "aggressive" act. HageL apologized, and was eventually approved.
-Leaving Family: Family Equality Council, in January, announced the departure of Executive Director Jennifer ChrisLer following an eight-year tenure. ChrisLer- who joined Smith College in March as vice president for alumnae relations and executive director of the Alumnae Association of Smith College-remained with the council until March 15.
-"Fil" of it?: Fast-food giant Chick-fil-A, despite some reports to the contrary, is still contributing to anti-gay organizations and causes, Media Matters reported. Chick-fil-A donated $1.9 million to anti-gay groups in 2010 alone through WinShape Foundation. The majority of that money went to groups Like the Marriage & Family Foundation, the Fellowship Of Christian Athletes, and the National Christian Foundation.
-Move against violence: The U.S. Senate passed the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) reauthorization bill, which includes explicit protections for LGBT survivors of domestic violence and enhanced protections for Native American and immigrant survivors.
-Chelsea lately: Judge Col. Denise Lind sentenced U.S. soldier Chelsea Manning (formerly Bradley Manning) Aug. 21 to 35 years in a military prison for turning over more than 700,000 classified files to WikiLeaks. (Manning was also dishonorably discharged from the military, Lost her pay and had her rank reduced to private.) In an Aug. 22 announcement, Manning said she wanted to Live as a woman, and desired to begin hormone therapy as soon as possible.
-Bowing out: Owing creditors more than $750,000, the National Association of People with AIDS (NAPWA) filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy, and announced it is going out of business 30 years after it was founded in 1983.
-Our people: The percentage of adults in the United States who identify as LGBT ranges from 1.7 percent in North Dakota to 5.1 percent in Hawaii and 10 percent in the District of Columbia, according to findings from a new study released by Williams Institute Distinguished Scholar Gary J. Gates and Gallup Editor-in-Chief Frank Newport.
-Stung: Federal election regulators want exU.S. Sen. Larry Craig to pay $140,000 in fines and return more than $216,000 to his campaign, claiming he misused the money to fund his Legal defense after his 2007 arrest in a Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport bathroom sex sting.
-By the numbers: As many as 6 million adults and children in the United States have an LGBT parent, and an estimated three million LGBT Americans have had a child at some point in their Lives. Including single and married or partnered LGBT people, the study found that nearly half of LGBT women and a fifth of LGBT men under age 50 are currently raising a child.
-Revolutionary rulings: In Late June, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act unconstitutional and allowed a Lower-court ruling to stand that struck down California's Proposition 8, which defines marriage as between one man and one woman. In the wake of the former decision, several federal departments (including social security and education) revised its policies to include samesex couples.
-Taxing situation: The National Association for Research & Therapy of Homosexuality, the Leading anti-LGBT organization advocating for dangerous efforts that falsely attempt to change one's sexual orientation, had its tax exempt status revoked by the 1RS for failure to fill out proper and routine tax forms.
-Appointments: President Obama continued his track record of appointing LGBT individuals, including Fred Hoch berg as president of ExportImport Bank of the United States, Daniel Baer to the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, Rufus Gifford as ambassador to Denmark, James Costos as ambassador to Spain, and Wally Brewster as the U.S. ambassador to the Dominican Republic.
-It's an honor: Lesbian writer Judy Rickard was one of 11 people the White House honored March 26 as Cesar Chavez "Champions of Change." Rickard-author of Torn Apart: United by Love, Divided by Law-has worked to promote civil rights since 1973 as an LGBT-rights activist. She is a pioneer in applying for a green card for her wife, UK national Karin Bogliolo, with The DOMA Project.
-A fine day: After two years of Legal battles, the trial of gay military activist Lt. Dan Choi ended after a federal judge convicted him of a misdemeanor and fined him $100. Choi was on trial for disobeying a Lawful order by police to disperse, stemming from a 2010 protest at the White House against the United States military's "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" policy.
-Denied: An Arizona judge denied Thomas Beatie's request for divorce from his wife of nine years. The so-called "pregnant man" kept his female reproductive organs while transitioning to a man in his early 20s, and Later gave birth to three children. The judge ruled that since Beatie and his wife have female organs, their marriage can be viewed as a same-sex marriage, and Arizona doesn't recognize such unions.
-Goodbye hello: John Berry Left his post as director of the Office of Personnel Management, ending a four-year term as President Obama's highest openly gay employee. He Later replaced Jeff Bleich as U.S. ambassador to Australia.
-OUTgoing: OUT magazine presented its seventh annual Power 50 List. Apple CEO Tim Cook was number one, while this was the first time Anderson Cooper (No. 5) is publicly out on the List. Among the other people on the List were Ellen DeGeneres (2), statistician Nate Silver (5), U.S. Sen. Tammy Baldwin (9), singer Frank Ocean (10), fashion designer/actor Marc Jacobs (19), financial guru Suze Orman (28) and RuPaul (50).
-Hazing aftermath: Former Florida A&M (FAMU) band members pled not guilty to increased charges of manslaughter related to the death of drum major Robert Champion. More than a dozen former FAMU band members were charged Last year with hazing, a third-degree felony, from Champion's death in 2011; however, prosecutors increased the charges to manslaughter. Champion Jr., a 26-year-old openly gay student, died after being beaten aboard the charter bus parked at the Rosen Plaza hotel.
-ENDA push: U.S. Rep. Jared Polis (D-Colo.) introduced a trans-in elusive ENDA bill in the House while Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.) introduced an ENDA bill in the Senate. Later, the Senate Health, Education, Labor & Pensions Committee approved ENDA by a 15-7 vote. The Senate approved ENDA Nov. 7 64-32 but the measure is expected to encounter more resistance in the Republican-controlled House.
-Exchanging stances: Republican U.S. Sen. Rob Portman announced his stance on same-sex marriage, and now is in support of its Legalization. The development occurred two years after his son Will came out to Portman and his wife as gay in 2011.
-Reagan revelations: Patti Davis, the daughter of former President Ronald Reagan and First Lady Nancy Reagan, made headlines when she said her father would have backed same-sex marriage. In a subsequent interview, she said that her mother, who rarely speaks on public policy issues, supports marriage equality.
-Departure: Barely a year after GLAAD named its new president, Herndon Graddick resigned from his position with the LGBT mediawatchdog group. Media executive Sarah Kate Ellis succeeded Graddick following a nationwide search.
-Teenage nightmare: In Florida, teenager Kaitlyn Hunt was expelled from school and faced criminal charges as a result of her same-sex relationship. Hunt, who attended Sebastian River High School, began dating another another girl when Hunt was 17 and the other girl 15; when Hunt turned 18, her girlfriend's parents had Hunt arrested. Hunt, now 19, pleaded no contest to five charges as part of a deal brokered by prosecutors and her attorneys; she agreed to four months in jail followed by two years of house arrest with electronic monitoring, and nine months of monitored probation after that.
-Historic leader: Dr. Saul Levin was announced as the new chief executive officer and medical director of the American Psychiatric Association. Levin, a psychiatrist with roots in substance abuse treatment, is the first openly gay person to hold this position.
-Revealing: Lesbian New York City mayoral candidate Christine Quinn went public about her past battles with bulimia and alcoholism that apparently started while her mother battled cancer. Quinn said that, starting at 16, she secretly binged and purged for a decade until she entered a Florida rehabilitation center.
-Beck and call: Trans woman Kristin Beck traveled around the country, promoting her memoir, Warrior Princess: A U.S. Navy SEAL'S Journey to Coming out Transgender. As Christopher, Beck served as a U.S. Navy SEAL in some of the most dangerous battlegrounds in the world. After retiring in 2011, Beck started Living as Kristin.
-This is SPARTA: Servicemembers, Partners, and Allies for Respect and Tolerance for ALL (SPARTA) announced its launch, just weeks after the alleged forced resignation of ALLyson Robinson at OutServe-SLDN that precipitated the group's reported impending dissolution. Robinson officially resigned July 12. Board cochair Josh Seefried launched an effort to force Robinson's resignation; however, both Seefried and Robinson ended up Leaving the military organization.
-Study time: The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) released the nation's first-ever national study examining housing discrimination against same-sex couples in the private rental market. Among other things, the study showed that gay male couples experience more discrimination than Lesbian couples.
-Southern exposure: A murder trial in Kentucky marked the first Legal test in the state involving whether same-sex partners can be forced to testify against each other. Prosecutors said Geneva Case heard her spouse, Bobbie Joe CLary, admit to killing a man two years ago, and saw her clean blood out of the man's van and abandon it in southern Indiana. Case and CLary entered into a same-sex civil union in Vermont in 2004; however, Kentucky Law does not recognize union or marriages, even though it exempts spouses from being compelled to testify against each other.
-Bedding day: Longtime gay-rights activist and award-winning playwright Larry Kramer married long-term partner David Webster from his hospital bed in New York City as he recovered from surgery. The Normal Heart writer, 78, initially planned to wed Webster on the terrace of their Manhattan apartment, but they had to scrap that idea after Kramer fell ill.
-Foreign affair: In what's been called one of the first cases of its kind, a Belarusian gay man tied the knot with his U.S. partner in Washington, D.C. and will be allowed to stay in the country. Vyachaslau Bortnik, a rights activist from the city of Hornel, and Shawn Gaylord, a U.S. Lawyer and adviser for a gay-advocacy organization, married July 11.
-Maine event: President George H.W. Bush and Barbara Bush attended and witnessed the wedding of friends in a same-sex ceremony in Maine. Bonnie Clement and Helen Thorgalsen- who own HB Provisions, a Kennebunk, Maine, general store-got the former president's official stamp of approval, although Bush has not officially declared his position on same sexmarriage.
-Cory daze: Democrat Cory Booker-the mayor of Newark, N.J.-was the unofficial winner of a state special election Oct. 16, handily defeating a conservative Republican to fill the state's vacant U.S. Senate seat. Booker, a progay candidate who had been heavily favored in polls, defeated conservative Republican Steve Lonegan by double digits.
-Gates way: More than two years after playing an influential role in the Obama administration's repeal of "Don't Ask, Don't Tell," former U.S. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates was named president-elect of the Boy Scouts of America. The Boy Scouts voted in May to approve a resolution removing any ban on members based on sexual orientation alone, although gay Scout Leaders are still prohibited. The policy change is slated to take effect Jan. 1, 2014.
-Going to the chapel: The U.S. Military Academy at West Point marked a historic moment with the marriage of two former male graduates at its Cadet Chapel Nov. 2. Larry Choate III, 27, and Daniel Lennox, 28, were married before about 20 guests, making it the academy's first wedding between two men.
-Family affair: The debate between the daughters of former Vice President Dick Cheney over same-sex marriage has reignited on social media. Mary Cheney and wife Heather Poe took to Facebook to express their disappointment after Liz Cheney-a GOP candidate for Senate in Wyoming-repeated her opposition to same sex marriage during a television interview.
-Freedom riders: Late gay icons Sally Ride and Bayard Rustin were among the recipients of the Presidential Medal of Freedom. (Tam O'Shaughnessy and Walter NaegLe, respectively, accepted for them.) Among the other recipients were Gloria Steinern, Oprah Winfrey, former President Bill Clinton and Loretta Lynn.
-In the swim: Lesbian endurance swimmer Diana Nyad finally set a record she had chased for more than three decades, completing the 110-mile swim from Cuba to Key West, Fla., on Sept. 2. The team for Nyad reported that she completed the trip in 52 hours, 54 minutes and 18.6 seconds-with no shark cage. She initially attempted the swim in 1978. The Last previous attempt (number four) was Last year; she made it 41 miles before succumbing to storms and jellyfish stings.
Read the entire year-end roundup online at www.WindyCityMediaGroup.com.
Next week will feature the highs and lows in 2013's local and world news.

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Same sex marriage; Supreme Court decisions; Political appointments; Domestic violence

Location: United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Looking back The year in national news

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 29

Issue: 13

Pages: 1,4

Number of pages: 2

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: Dec 25, 2013

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1474344465

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/looking-back-year-national-news/docview/1474344465/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Dec 25, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-11

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

What's up next for Chicago's Catholics?

Author: Colbert, Chuck

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/whats-up-next-chicagos-catholics/docview/1470404151/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: The Rainbow Sash Movement hopes the next Leader of the Archdiocese of Chicago is both humble and a servant. He needs to be open to a diversity of opinions; and 'Yes,' we think he should sit down with the LGBT Chicago political Leadership to really understand those concerns.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=11&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2013-12-11&amp;atitle=What%27s+up+next+for+Chicago%27s+Catholics%3F&amp;au=Colbert%2C+Chuck&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=11&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2013-12-11&amp;atitle=What%27s+up+next+for+Chicago%27s+Catholics%3F&amp;au=Colbert%2C+Chuck&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   When the Chicago Archdiocese hosts a celebration next week for sometime-soon-to-be retiring Francs Cardinal George, not everybody will be in a festive mood.
Gay-rights activist Andy Thayer, for one, will be on the outside protesting. "With bishops and cardinals coming from around the country, this will probably be one of the biggest assemblages of Leaders opposed to equal rights for LGBTs and women that our state has seen in many years," he said.
An activist group, the Gay Liberation Network (GLN), of which Thayer is a co-founder, plans to picket a reception and dinner, scheduled Wednesday evening, Dec. 18, at the Drake Hotel.
Along with GLN, Chicago Catholic activist group Rainbow Sash Movement also plans to protest what GLN terms "a sumptuous feast."
Rather than celebrate, the group says the cardinal's "virulent anti-gay Language and behavior deserves scorn, not honor."
In all, there are three events set to mark the 50th anniversary of George's ordination to the priesthood. The first is the celebration of an anniversary Mass at Holy Name Cathedral, followed by Lunch at Roy's, Located across the street. The big-bucks reception and dinner are scheduled that evening at the Drake.
Local mainstream media reported in early October the cost of the anniversary celebration would be paid for by private donations, with dinner tickets ranging from $300 to $10,000 for prime-seat tables.
The Local CBS affiliate also reported as many as 150 bishops and cardinals from the U.S. and beyond were expected a week before Christmas at Holy Name, where in 1997 George first introduced himself as Chicago's Roman Catholic spiriWINTER tual leader.
The Late Pope John Paul II appointed George, a Chicago native, cardinal in 1998. He served as president of the U.S. Conference of CathoLic Bishops (USCCB) from 2007 to 2010.
George, 76, is nearly two years past the church's mandatory retirement age for prelates. He turns 77 on Jan. 16.
Since he submitted his retirement Letter two years ago to then-Pope Benedict XVI, moreover, speculation has swirled around his Likely successor, as well as if and when George would step down.
As recently as Nov. 11, his spokeswoman told the Chicago Sun-Times, "The cardinal has no plans to retire soon," said Colleen Dolan. "He submitted his perfunctory resignation in 2012 and has heard nothing."
But two years ago, Benedict XVI was pope. Now Francs is pontiff.
All of which raises key questions: When will the new pope move to repLace George? What is the appointment process? And what would Chicago gay-rights activists and LGBT's among the faithfuL Like to see in a new spirituaL Leader in the nation's third Largest Roman CathoLic archdiocese?
Those questions have gained considerable traction as George has battled cancer twice now. Speaking to heath concerns, his spokeswoman told the Sun Times Last month, that George is "tired, doing well, watches his health carefully, works too hard, and maintains the regular schedule he has for the Last 10 years," adding, 'The reports of his death were greatly exaggerated."
Meanwhile, in a few words, the selection process for a new bishop or archbishop is deliberative and orderly-and highly secretive, with Little to no input from the Laity.
As the Rev. Thomas Reese, a Jesuit priest who is an expert on the appointment process, explained in some detail Nov. 12, in the National CathoLic Reporter:
"The appointment process begins when a bishop turns 75 or dies. The nuncio, the pope's representative to the U.S. church, is responsible for drawing up a List of three names [called a terna] that is sent to the Congregation for Bishops in Rome. The nuncio usually consults with all the U.S. cardinals and the archbishop of the province containing the diocese, as well as the retiring bishop.
"The Congregation for Bishops reviews the terna and the nuncio's report. If they do not Like the names, they tell the nuncio to submit a new List. Ultimately, they vote on the List, and the prefect of the congregation takes three names to the pope, Listed in order of preference. The pope makes the final derision."
Reese also says that the newly elected vice president of the USCCB, Cardinal Daniel DiNardo of Galveston-Houston, Texas, may well be a "kingmaker" in the appointment of bishops in the United States.
Reese rites attributes Like DiNardo's service as former staffer in the Vatican Congregation for Bishops and his "knowledge of the process, key players and the politics of episcopal appointments."
And DiNardo, Reese said, can on his many visits to Rome "make his recommendations known to the right people, including Pope Francis."
Another advantage: DiNardo is fluent in Italian at the same time Francis is not "at home in English," according to Reese, who adds that the pope has "Little personal knowledge of the United States."
Therefore, the pontiff will need to depend on others to advise him. And while the closest U.S. prelate to Francis is Boston's Cardinal Sean O'Malley, Reese says, "O'Malley is a saint not a politician," who "will not push favors or even give his advice unless the pope asks."
Who emerges from the appointment process as Chicago's next archbishop is anybody's best guess.
Local media (CBS Chicago) and beyond have speculated on several strong candidates with Local ties to succeed George. They are Archbishop Wilton D. Gregory of Atlanta; Archbishop Jerome E. Listecki of Milwaukee; Bishop Thomas J. Paprocki of Springfield, Illinois; and Archbishop Gustavo Garcia-Siller of San Antonio, Texas.
Both Gregory and Listecki are former Chicago seminarians. Paprocki, who offered prayers of supplication and exorcism on the same day Illinois Governor Pat Quinn signed the marriage equality bill into law, is a Blackhawks fan, nicknamed "Holy Goalie." Garcia-Siller, a former Chicago auxiliary bishop, Learned to speak Polish enabling him connect with the region's large Polish-American population.
Gregory is African-American. He served as president of the USCCB from 2001-2004, was Bishop of Belleville, ILL, from 1993 to 2004, and auxiliary bishop of Chicago from 1983 to 1993.
A decade ago, moreover, the Late Timothy J. Russert, on Meet the Press (June 16, 2002), asked Gregory about a controversial comment he made regarding gay priests.
Said Russert, "Homosexuality-a few months ago you made a comment which got a Lot of attention about homosexuals in the priesthood, and I'll show you exactly what you said and give you a chance to respond to it. I think we have it there on our screen. 'It's most importantly a struggle to make sure that the CathoLic priesthood is not dominated by homosexual men.' Explain that."
Gregory replied, "One of the things that I think that this moment calls for is that the church must Look carefully at the caliber of priests that serve us, and the caliber of candidates who seek to enter the priesthood. It's a call for holiness and integrity of Life. And that statement was made in that context, that this is a moment of purification and introspection. We need healthy, holy priests, who Live the promises that they make with integrity."
In a follow-up question Russert asked, "Can a homosexual be a healthy, happy priest?"
Said Gregory, "I think we have some who are. I think we have men who have embraced the promise of celibacy irregardless of their sexual orientation and they've Lived it with integrity."
Any other strong candidates to repLace George? The Local CBS affiliate reported the strongest contender might well be Archbishop J. Peter Sartain of Seattle, Washington. Another possibility is Bishop Kevin Farrell of Dallas, Texas.
Meanwhile, what are Local gay-rights activists and LGBT's among the faithful Looking for after George, who over the years has been an ardent opponent of LGBT rights, especially marriage equality?
One thing is clear, nobody wants another antigay general in the culture war against LGBT's.
Oddly enough, like many CathoLic families with LGBT family members, even his own. Cardinal George acknowledged his oldest nephew is gay and a "fine man."
Earlier this year, in a wide-ranging interview with America magazine, a Jesuit publication, Pope Francs said the Roman CathoLic Church has been overly "obsessed" with condemning samesex marriage, abortion, and contraception and should shift its focus, emphasizing compassion and mercy rather than "small-minded rules."
Chris Pett, a past president of the Local Dignity Chicago chapter, hopes the new Leader heeds Francs' words.
"My vision and hope for the new archbishop would be that he reflects the perspectives and world view of Pope Francis, who envisions a church of inclusion, justice, focused on the poor and marginalized, and injustices of all kinds such as racism and economic inequality," said Pett.
He added, "While we want this new shepherd to share Francs' worldview and clarification of the church's true mission, this Leader could also be a shepherd who will help the Local church of Chicago and national church to address some of the disconnects that still are not recognized by Francs, such as how can you put forward a worldview focused on injustice and inequality and not see the connection with challenges to LGBT Catholics and the Leadership role of women in the church; that the church's moral teaching that LGBT sexuality is 'intrinsically evil and morally disordered' is not seen in itself an injustice and recognizing that this teaching is dis-ordered and willfully ignorant of what the human sriences tell us. Nor is denying women their rightful place in the ministry and Leadership of the church an injustice and in opposition to Gospel imperatives."
For his part, Dignity Chicago's media coordinator Martin G roch ala offered a perspective. "Someone who is not only willing to converse, but also who is also willing to Listen. Someone who takes to heart the Pope's focus on justice, service and Love. Without those three values, doctrine is a dry and empty shell," said Grochala.
Marianne Duddy-Burke, executive director of DignityUSA, went further, expanding on Local Dignity spokespersons' hopes for new Leadership.
'This will be the first appointment of a U.S. archbishop since Pope Francis' election. It is an opportunity for the Pope to send a strong message by appointing someone with a strong, clear record of pastoral Leadership. If, instead, the new Leader of the Archdiocese rose to prominence by attacking LGBT people, same-sex marriage and women's health care, and continues along those Lines without being called on the carpet, it will cause many to question how the pope's words and actions relate to each other," she said.
"DignityUSA members hope that Chicago's new Leader will be someone who is deeply rooted in the sense of the Church as the Living Body of Christ, and who sees himself (and, of course it will be 'himself) as shepherd and minister rather than enforcer-in-chief. We want him to recognize Love and commitment between couples as reflecting the Divine Spirit, especially as Legal same-sex marriage becomes a reality in Illinois," Duddy-Burke added. "He should help all members of our Church greet this reality with a peaceful spirit, and ensure that Church institutions respect the Legal commitments couples have made to each other."
For Joe Murray of the Rainbow Sash Movement, openness and humility are necessary characteristics of a new Leader.
"The Rainbow Sash Movement hopes the next Leader of the Archdiocese of Chicago is both humble and a servant. He needs to be open to a diversity of opinions; and 'Yes,' we think he should sit down with the LGBT Chicago political Leadership to really understand those concerns. This would go a Long way to opening up communication between these two significant communities in Chicago with possible ramifications nationally," said Murray, who also voiced sharp criticism for what he termed George's "extravagant retirement parties" saying they "are both out of place and clueless when it comes to the poor."
Murray added, "The key attribute for George's replacement is he has to be a good pastor first. He needs to be able to Listen to people who he may not either agree with or like, but this is what the Gospels call us to do. Loving each other is a messy business, but in that messiness is wonder and hope."
Similarly, Francis DeBernardo, executive director of the Maryland-based New Ways Ministry, offered his thoughts.
"After Cardinal George's tenure as archbishop of Chicago, what is needed is a pastoral, Listener. Cardinal George's heavily theological and political tone has caused many in the LGBT community to be alienated from the CathoLic Church. We need a healer and reconciler to undo the damage that he caused by insensitive remarks and aggressive political involvement," said DeBernardo.
Not only has George's tenure rankled Local gayrights activists and LGBTs among the faithfuL, but also his stridency has alienated others in pastoral ministry with gays and Lesbians.
"In 1999, in a welcome address to the National Association of CathoLic Diocesan Lesbian/Gay Ministries, Cardinal George warned this group of professional ministers not to discuss that year's Vatican directive which attempted to ban Sister Jeannine Gramick and Father Robert Nugent from ministering with lesbian and gay people," DeBernardo explained.
"George's action revealed an authoritarian small-mindedness that feared disagreement and discussion. After his Long tenure in Chicago, Catholics need someone who will not only Listen to their concerns, but will encourage, not discourage, them to voice their opinions to church Leaders on the crucial topics of sexuality, LGBT people, and ministry."
Longtime gay-rights activist Rick Garda, who is CathoLic, said concern for anti-violence measures and the poor should be a top priority for the next spirituaL Leader.
"We need an archbishop who, unlike Cardinal George, will speak out about the number of children and others who have been victims of gun violence in Chicago. A bishop who will focus on the needs of those who are poor, the undocumented immigrant, those who are victims of domestic violence, those who are oppressed and those who have no voice of their own," said Garcia.
For Thayer and GLN, an end to archdiocesan opposition to LGBT dvil rights would be a welcomed change. Over the years, he said, the archdiocese could be "counted on to virulently oppose every move for LGBT social equality in Illinois. Now that we have Largely won Legal equality, we want LGBT-affirming education in our public schools" and "social services delivered in a non-sectarian manner where people of all faiths-or no faith-will receive them without favor or discrimination."
Thayer added, "As the African-American dvilrights movement Learned more than a generation ago, winning formal legal equality is just one important step on the road to full equality, with many battles that still need to be won."
For their part, Mary Ellen and Casey Lopata, co-founders of Fortunate Families, a Rochester, N.Y.-based ministry with parents of LGBT children, their families and siblings, offered yet another perspective. "A clone of Pope Frands would work for us," they said. "Oops, church teaching won't allow that."
©Copyright. Chuck Colbert. All rights reserved.

Subject: Clergy; Catholic churches; LGBTQ rights movements; Retirement

Business indexing term: Subject: Retirement

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: George, Francis

Company / organization: Name: Roman Catholic Archdiocese-Chicago IL; NAICS: 813110

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: What's up next for Chicago's Catholics?

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 29

Issue: 11

Pages: 1,8

Number of pages: 2

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: Dec 11, 2013

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1470404151

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/whats-up-next-chicagos-catholics/docview/1470404151/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Dec 11, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-11

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

CALENDAR

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calendar/docview/1470403750/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Divalia'ous" Sunday brunch Diva Madam X will welcome "Jingle Bell Brunch" guesb with a variety of holiday tunes, musicab and seasonal sing-along favorites. Kit Katb seven projection screens will show holiday movies, from hilarious (Christmas Vacation, Elf) to heartwarming (It's a Wonderful Life, White Christmas). Chef JoAnn Witherell's brunch menu may be paired with an optional drink package for an additional $10 per person.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=11&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=24&amp;date=2013-12-11&amp;atitle=CALENDAR&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=11&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=24&amp;date=2013-12-11&amp;atitle=CALENDAR&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Brought to you by the combined efforts of
Wed., Dec. 11
Illinois Academy of Criminology Past Presidents' Night Honoring Mary Powers, of police-accountability activist group Citizens Alert and a fighter for LGBT rights, and Dennis Drahos. Guest speaker Daniel Nagin, respected criminologist and authority on what deters street violence. $40. Reservations by phone. 6:00pm Colletti, 5707 N. Central Ave., 773-275-7100
Jenny Moshak, author of Ice 'n' Go Celebrated trainer of the legendary Lady Vols basketball team and associate athletic director for sports mediane at the University of Tennessee, Jenny Moshak brings her insight and breadth of knowledge to this memoir that abo serves as a commentary on a wide range of sports-related issues, including gender and expectations. 7:30pm Women & Children First Bookstore 5233 N Clark St., www.womenandchildrenfirst.com
Static Berlin Every Wednesday Static Join DJ Pete Augusta and special guests for Static. 9:00pm Berlin Nightclub 954 W Belmont Ave
Thursday, Dec. 12
How Ending Violence Against Women Will Save the World Dr. Salamishah Tiliet, a rape survivor, writer, and associate professor at the University of Pennsylvania, will present and local advocates will join in exploring what rape culture is, and how the widespread use of social networks has fueled its growth. Local advocates will include UIC Professor Beth Elaine Richie, WBEZb Natalie Yvonne Moore, Rape Victim Advocates' Sharmili Majmudar, and Claudia Garda Rojas of the Chicago Taskforce on Violence Against Girb & Young Women. Free. Reservations required online or via email events@prairie.org 6:00pm - 8:00pm Experimental Station 6100 S. Blackstone Ave. http://www.prairie.org
Laughing For A Change Benefits Family Rescue, an organization committed to breaking the cycle of domestic abuse and harboring and healing it's victims. Doors open at 6:30. 6:30-8:30 fun and games. 8:30-10:30 performances. Tickets cost $15, or $10 with a donation of needed goods. 6:30pm The Public House Theatre 3914 N. Clark St. 800-650-6449 Tickets: http://pubhousetheatre.com
Parents of Transgender People For decades, PFLAG has been proud to be a resource for transgender and gender non-conforming people, their families, and friends. For More Info: parentsoftransgender@pflagillinois.org 7:00pm Center on Habted 3656 N Habted http://community.pflag. org/transgender
Seven Stories, The Line Between Monthly reading series hosted by a drag queen who pulb a new skin from her revolving rack of personalities for each show. Authors mix in theater, music, and audience participation to heighten each story until it resembles a tiny circus, a short play, or a conceptual performance. Primarily nonfiction, with mind-bending fiction, poetry, and short plays as welL During intermission, audience members have open mic, to tell stories of their own, unscripted. $3-$5 donation. 8:00pm Martin's Corner, 2056 W. 22 nd PI.
Friday, Dec. 13
Project Fierce Chicago Happy Hour Snag a signature Ferociously Fierce cocktail while getting to know our fabulous volunteers. Bring your friends because all drink proceeds benefit PFC. 6:00pm - 9:00pm McFadden's bar 1206 N. State Pkwy., www. mcfaddenschicago.com/
Luau in December! Polynesian Show 8i Dinner Chicago Bisexual/Lesbian Women's Group. Dinner and a show ala tropicaL All Inclusive including tax and gratuity $31.95 per person. Sign up on Meet Up and call Richard and RSVP to Suburban Adventures Meetup Group. 7:00pm The Tiki Terrace 1591 Lee St. Des Plaines, IL 60018 847-795-8454
Loose Chicks Roberta Miles and Jillian Erickson, the original "Loose Chicks" will be starring in and presenting a performance based on their experiences through life. Guest Chicks Gretchen Rachel Blickensderfer, Virginia Marie, & Sheri Redawill be featured this month. BYOB 7:15pm Uncharted Books 2630 N. Milwaukee Ave., www.theloosechicks.com
It's A Wonderful Life: Live in Chicago! Pink Previews, where tickeb sales benefit the Lynn Sage Foundation for breast cancer research, are Friday, Nov. 22 and Saturday, Nov. 23 at 7:30 pm. $19-$49. Through Dec. 29. 7:30pm Greenhouse Theater Center 2257 N. Lincoln Ave. 773404-7336, http://americanbluestheater. com
Beyonce The Mrs. Carter Show World Tour. $56-$265 8:00pm United Center 1901 W Madison Ave http://ticketmaster.com
Launch party for BOYS, an Anthology The besbelling eBook, BOYS, celebrates print edition with Chicago Launch Party. BOYS editors and contributors gather in Boystown for a night out to celebrate release with Chicago community. RSVP to RSVP@10MGMT.com 8:00pm - 10:00pm Minibar 3341 N Habted St.
Happy Holi-GAYS (and Straights) Mark Ortega Entertainment and Paula Sinclaire present a festive night of holiday music and comedy and comedic performance by Carmela Nudo of Second City feme, as well as 2013 Windy City Gay Idol Finalisb Timothy Willy, Jonathan Smallwood and James Gavin. Free. Over 21. Info via MarkOrtegaEntertainment@gmail.com 9:00pm M7 and Circuit Nightclub, 3641 N. Habted St.
Saturday, Dec. 14
Holidays In Uptown Don your gay apparel! We're decking the halls with style in Chicago's historic Uptown neighborhood. Lakeside Pride's Symphonic Band and the shhh...0UT! Jazz Ensemble join forces. To include "Christmas Eve Is Coming Soon," from Scrooge & Marley, written by the film's co-writer/ director Richard Knight, Jr., performed by noted area vocalist Becca Kaufman. $20. $12 seniors and studenb. 7:00pm Preston Bradley Center 941 W Lawrence Ave., 773-381-6693, www.lakesidepride.org
Las Manos Presents: A Holiday Extravaganza, opening reception A collection of present and past works by new as well as familiar artisb. In the holiday spirit, we've requested some of our artisb to make "gift sized" pieces, something smaller and easy to take home. Info mail@ lasmanosgallery.com 7:00pm - 10:00pm Las Manos Gallery 1515 W Foster Ave., www.lasmanosgallery.com
Black, White & Grey Art Exhibition Last art opening of the year as: local black, white and grey artworks at our Edgewater gallery location. 7:00pm - 10:00pm Degenerate Art Gallery 5554 N. Winthrop Ave., http://www.degenerateartgallery.com
Chicago Gay Men's Chorus 2013 Holiday show: Making Spirits Bright Bringing to a close ib 30th Anniversary Season, CGMC reprises 10 of ib most popular holiday momenb, along with 10 new songs, PLUS 10 pieces created for the occasion by Artistic Director Patrick Sinozich. Come celebrate holiday traditions new and old with the singing and dancing Chicago's Most Colorful Chorus! 8:00pm Rockefeller Chapel University of Chicago, 5850 S. Woodlawn Ave., www.cgmc.org/event/2013/making-spirib-bright
Slo Mo Spectacular w/Sidewalk Chalk, JC Brooks, Damon Locks, Psalm One Concert to benefit Project Fierce Chicago, a new organization aiming to provide housing for homeless LGBTQ youth, with jazz/R&B/ hip hop collective Sidewalk Chalk performing holiday favorites featuring over a dozen amazing Chicago artisb. 17+ $15 advance/$20 door. 8:00pm The Bottom Lounge 1375 W. Lake St Tickeb: http:// bottomlounge.com/events-archive/ the-slo-mo-spectacular-hosted-by-kristen-kaza-and-ike-holter-featuring-sidewalk-chalk-jc-brooks-psalm-one-matthew-santos-jeanine-otoole-lili-k-kokumo-deja-taylor-rthe-st-james Boobs of the Dead: A Walking Dead Burlesque Parody of the popular Walking Dead television series. 11:45pm Gorilla Tango Theatre 1919 N Milwaukee Ave., 773-598-4549 http://www.gorillatango. com/zombies
Sunday, Dec. 15
"Divalia'ous" Sunday brunch Diva Madam X will welcome "Jingle Bell Brunch" guesb with a variety of holiday tunes, musicab and seasonal sing-along favorites. Kit Katb seven projection screens will show holiday movies, from hilarious (Christmas Vacation, Elf) to heartwarming (It's a Wonderful Life, White Christmas). Chef JoAnn Witherell's brunch menu may be paired with an optional drink package for an additional $10 per person. Reservations by phone 11:00am - 4:00pm Kit Kat Lounge & Supper Club 3700 N Habted 773-525-1111
Burton-esque: The World of Tim Burton brought to life; A Benefit Concert Variety show featuring favorite characters from Tim Burton Movies and artwork. Benefits various local charities. 7:00pm Stage 773 1225 W Belmont Ave., http:// www.theJproduction.com
Monday, Dec. 16
Jeannie Tanner CD release party: Joyful Season Jeannie Tanner Quartet celebrate the release of Joyful Season featuring Lisa McQueen (piano); Cory Biggerstaff (bass); and Darren Scorza (drums). Special holiday show is being sponsored by our friends at WDCB. 5:00pm - 8:30pm Andy's Jazz Club, 11 E Hubbard St., http:// jeannietanner.com
Chigaygo: The Christmas Balls episode Don't miss Gwen La Roka, Candy Lawrence, The Fruit Flies, Amy Eisenberg, and host Scott Duff. Bring an unwrapped gift (valued at $15 or more) and get 4 free tickeb to the show. 8:00pm The Laugh Factory Chicago 3175 N Broadway. See Facebook for more info.
Tuesday, Dec. 17
Christmas a la Downton Walk into the past and celebrate Christmas in Manor House Style. Learn Mrs. Eaton's cooking techniques, enjoy Edwardian delicacies roasted chestnut soups, herbed shortbread, individual duck pie, figgie pudding and tea. Reservations limited. Tickeb $35 advance purchase required. Order by phone. 6:00pm - 8:00pm Lang House B&B 7421 N. Sheridan Rd. 773-764-9851 http:// www.elliepresenb.com
Bi discussion group Every other Tuesday we get together to chat about upcoming bisexual evenb, concerns, and answer each other's questions about the community. Soft drinks & water are provided by the Center, but feel free to bring anything ebe you'd like to share, whether it's snacks or a good book! 7:00pm Center on Habted 3656 N Habted http://www.centeronhalsted.org
Wed., Dec. 18
GLAAD Annual Holiday Reception to recognize Chicago LGBT activist Kevin Boyer The reception will celebrate a historic year in the LGBT movement and will include a presentation to leading LGBT advocate Kevin Boyer for his long standing service to the LGBT community. $25 5:30pm Downtown Bar and Lounge 440 N State Tickets: http://www.glaad.org/ tistheseason
Health Insurance Open Enrollment event To assist with enrollment in affordable health insurance. First come, first served. Bring proof of ritizenship, proof of residency, soa'al security numbers or document numbers for legal immigranb, employer and incomes info for every member of household who needs coverage, policy numbers for current insurance plans, and policy info for every job-based health plan for which you or household members are eligible. Info via AffordableCare@howardbrown.org or by phone. 6:00pm - 9:00pm Howard Brown Health Center 4025 N Sheridan Rd 773-388-8867 http://www. howardbrown.org
Sidebar LOVE ON TOP
Friday; Dec. 14
Superstar singer Beyonce is performing at the United Center, 1901 W. Madison Ave.

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: CALENDAR

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 29

Issue: 11

Pages: 24

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: Dec 11, 2013

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 1470403750

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calendar/docview/1470403750/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Dec 11, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-11

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

DICK Durbin visits Center on Halsted

Author: Simonette, Matt

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dick-durbin-visits-center-on-halsted/docview/1468610031/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [Dick Durbin] attended the ceremony wherein President Obama signed the repeal of "Don't Ask, Don't Tell," where Cammermeyer recited pledge of allegiance. "I thought, This has come full-circle/" he said. "She was the illustration of the challenge we face, and now she was here to celebrate as we start to come to grips with it."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=10&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2013-12-04&amp;atitle=DICK+Durbin+visits+Center+on+Halsted&amp;au=Simonette%2C+Matt&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=10&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2013-12-04&amp;atitle=DICK+Durbin+visits+Center+on+Halsted&amp;au=Simonette%2C+Matt&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   U.S. Sen. Dick Durbin (D-ILL.) toured Lakeview^ Center on Halsted Nov. 25 and held a press conference to discuss a number of issues pertinent to the LGBT community, among them ENDA (the Employment Non-Discrimination Act), Illinois' marriage-equality Legislation and immigration reform.
Durbin said that his support of LGBT issues was greatly inspired by Margarethe Cammermeyer, who was discharged from the National Guard after she disclosed that she was a Lesbian.
"I thought about that fundamental unfairness and injustice," he added. "Here is a woman who had risked her Life as a combat nurse to save the Lives of American servicemen and [service] women and had had an exemplary career with consistent promotions, and when she honestly disclosed her status, she was discharged."
Durbin attended the ceremony wherein President Obama signed the repeal of "Don't Ask, Don't Tell," where Cammermeyer recited pledge of allegiance. "I thought, This has come full-circle/" he said. "She was the illustration of the challenge we face, and now she was here to celebrate as we start to come to grips with it."
He added that he has been surprised with how relatively quickly the prospect of marriage equality came about in Illinois.
"It wasn't that Long ago that we were fighting for civil unions, and then, in a very brief period of time ... thanks to the Leadership of Lambda Legal and so many others, [marriage] became a reality," said Durbin, adding thanks to state Rep. Greg Harris and state Sen. Heather Steans.
Durbin made phone calls on behalf of SB10. He said two Legislators were willing to tell only him that SB10 would have their support, despite "serious religious concerns. ... There was a Lot of Lobbying going on that you don't know about, and it involved many elected officials. What has happened in this country, thank goodness, is that our generation has been given a chance to break down a wall of discrimination."
Speaking on ENDA, Durbin said that its passage in the Senate was one of the few times "an otherwise Lackluster Congress did something worthwhile. I went to the floor of the Senate and told Margrethe Cammermeyer's story again. I really ought to be her agent."
But the Legislation made Little Leeway in the Republican-Led House of Representatives. "But elections have consequences," Durbin said. "Hopefully in the next election we'll see some of those consequences."
He called the immigration reform issue "as hard as it gets. ... We had a bill that said we were going to stop discrimination against families. I co-sponsored another bill, which extended protections to all families, regardless of sexual orientation. Then came the negotiation of the immigration bill, and the republicans agreed with the basic bill, but not that provision."
The senator called what followed "one of those impossible Faustian choices-[whether] you're going to have a bill without the provision. The bill passed without the protection for same-gender marriages. I'm still committed to it. The whole train's come to a stop in the House of Representatives, but I believe we should have protections for all. ... One thing I've Learned in this job is that wisdom is important, but patience is essential."
Durbin, on Nov. 25, also appeared alongside Vice President Joseph Biden and Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel at an event Launching construction of the WINGS (Women In Need Growing Stronger) Metro facility, the first new shelter for victims of domestic violence to be constructed in more than a decade. The popular third-term Democrat is running for re-election in 2014, and appeared at a fundraising Lunch for his campaign as well.

Subject: Senators; Gays & lesbians; Same sex marriage; Reforms; Immigration policy; Employment discrimination

Business indexing term: Subject: Employment discrimination

Location: Illinois; United States--US

People: Durbin, Richard

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: DICK Durbin visits Center on Halsted

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 29

Issue: 10

Pages: 6

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: Dec 4, 2013

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1468610031

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dick-durbin-visits-center-on-halsted/docview/1468610031/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Dec 4, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-23

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Life after marriage (equality)

Author: Baim, Tracy

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/life-after-marriage-equality/docview/1461383109/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: There are two major things about being LGBT that continue to dent our arc in its search for justice: internalized homophobia and familial homophobia. Sarah Schulman writes about this in Ties that Bind: Familial Homophobia and Its Consequences. This is the damage that occurs in families, something that all of the societal acceptance in the world can't easily unpack. There are families who try to cure their LGBT youth, are violent toward them, kick them out and shun them.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=7&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=14&amp;date=2013-11-13&amp;atitle=Life+after+marriage+%28equality%29&amp;au=Baim%2C+Tracy&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=7&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=14&amp;date=2013-11-13&amp;atitle=Life+after+marriage+%28equality%29&amp;au=Baim%2C+Tracy&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Now that we have passed marriage equality in Illinois, many people wonder, "What's next?"
This was the Holy Grail sought by some Illinois residents going back to the 1970s, when two women were arrested trying to get a marriage certificate in Cook County.
Marriage equality is not just a very real need for some LGBT couples, but it is also a symbolic victory for the rest of society. While many whites never married people of color, and vice versa, the U.S. Supreme Court 1967 decision in Loving v. Virginia that banned anti-miscegenation Laws was a critical ruling even for those who never felt the sting of those bans. The Lifting of "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" did not affect every gay person directly, but it did as a whole. And, of course, it changed things for their straight colleagues, too.
Not every law that impacts social change directly helps every person in those categories. Marriage is not for everyone, LGBT or straight. But you bet it is an important symbol of social progress and change. Straight people, even those who Love us, don't always "get" us through our gay Lens of pride parades and cultural diversity. But when it comes to the traditions of marriage, they really do have a better sense of us. I have witnessed the changes on the faces of relatives and friends attending same-gender weddings, and it is real.
That is why the right wing continues to fight marriage equality to the bitter end. They know our marriages will not cause one heterosexual divorce. But it will ease the heteronormative pressure placed on people who are different, as they grow up witnessing this inclusive social revolution. I can't imagine the impact it would have had on me to witness a gay wedding in 1976, as I entered high school. My nephew attended my ceremony with my partner of 18 years when he was 15, and he is the coolest straight boy around, participating in his school's gay/ straight alliance, attending LGBT events and cheering me on in my work for equality.
But there are two major things about being LGBT that continue to dent our arc in its search for justice: internalized homophobia and familial homophobia. Sarah Schulman writes about this in Ties that Bind: Familial Homophobia and Its Consequences. This is the damage that occurs in families, something that all of the societal acceptance in the world can't easily unpack. There are families who try to cure their LGBT youth, are violent toward them, kick them out and shun them. Yes, Virginia, even in 2013, our LGBT youth must face some of the same obstacles we did.
So a victory on marriage equality is important, but it is not the end. It is the beginning of a new era, perhaps, but one that still will be a particularly personal and difficult battle for some of our community's most vulnerable. And because we won marriage by a narrow margin, we know that our enemies are not fully defeated. They have children, sisters, brothers, grandparents and others in their families who are right now being ostracized, not fully accepted as human beings. Marriage will not solve this, but it has helped move society forward as they see the images of our more complete Lives, as they attend those weddings, and as our families become more real.
So what is next for Illinois? We learned a Lot of things during this march toward equality. We Learned what works, and what does not, in seeking change. We confirmed that absolute power only concedes to pressure, not acting nice. We Learned that the grassroots LGBT and allied communities have a Lot of power, and that power will not be ignored either by our enemies or our allies-and also not by top-down organizations (Locally or nationally) who think they know what is best for us.
Another important Lesson to take away from this is how amazing our allies were on this issue. From unions to feminist Leaders, civil-rights groups to churches, students to immigrantrights workers, this was an amazing alliance of groups and people. Can we take this coalition and mold it into a permanent form? What would that Look Like? We would have to disagree at times, but come together on important coalition projects. We would show up for others as they showed up for us.
I am interested in continuing this dialogue. Perhaps there can be a Bayard Rustin Institute for Social Justice in Chicago, where individuals and groups can come together to Learn from one another, network, and "show up" for causes. Legislation and events. We don't need to create a huge institution to accomplish this work, with bloated budgets and salaries. The March on Springfield was done all-in for Less than $50,000, with no staff and no permanent infrastructure. People who care about these issues can be creative and find ways to work together in a complementary way, and work separately when that is needed.
The LGBT community can bring great ideas to the overall work of social justice. We know this because LGBTs have always done so. Many were not as courageous as Bayard Rustin, so they did their work from the closet. But many more were out and proud as LGB or T, and fought for decades for the rights of others. Well, we need to now do this even more boldly, working across boundaries to find creative solutions. If we do this, perhaps we will continue to earn the respect and support of our allies.
So what is next on our "LGBT agenda" in Illinois? Let me end with my own Top 15 List:
1) AIDS and general LGBT healthcare issues; there is work toward an "AIDS-free generation" but we are not there yet, and there are many other healthcare needs of this community.
2) Homeless LGBTQ youth need food, shelter, education and jobs.
3) LGBT seniors have many needs, including housing. The new senior housing facility will be great, but it will house just a few dozen people.
4) Violence of all forms in our community, including domestic violence and anti-LGBT violence, needs to be continually addressed.
5) Transgender resources are needed, especially for those facing increased threats of violence, job Loss, and homelessness.
6) Family values-making sure the new marriage law is fully implemented and that all related laws are brought in Line.
7) Poverty is a very real issue for LGBTs, just as it is for the overall society. As a community, we can provide resources to help our own, through grants, training and services. We also should back the $15 minimum wage movement, as it would transform this nation.
8) Immigration is an LGBT issue, because of the millions of LGBTs and their families who are Living in Limbo with current immigration laws.
9) Racial and geographic segregation in our communities is no better than it was in the 1970s, and we need to figure out how to better work across our differences.
10) Substance abuse has always been an issue in the LGBT community, in part because of internal and external homophobia. We need more resources.
11) Suicide is an issue facing all generations of LGBTs. Sometimes it is connected to harassment, but more often it is about making proper resources available, including mental health services.
12) Bullying itself is an issue, whether on an NFL team or in a high school. It can Lead to many problems, including violence and murder.
13) Religion still has power in this country, including the power to damage people from the inside. The work our religious allies do on LGBT rights is admirable, and should be acknowledged and supported.
14) The Employment Non-Discrimination Act is needed, without religious compromise. It's not OK for someone to refuse to hire or serve a person based on their race or gender, and it should not be OK based on their sexual orientation or gender identity.
15) Finally, history is important to me. I would not be where I am today without the work and support of thousands of people who came before me. We need to make sure we are supporting efforts to document our community, including The Legacy Project. In many cases, it is the only way the next generation will Learn our stories.
There are ways to prioritize these concepts, but the bottom Line is there is much more to do, and we must not rest on the victory of marriage equality. It is grand and it is great, but it is not the end.
What's on your agenda? Email me at editor@ windycitymediagroup.com.

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Same sex marriage; Equality; Social impact; Social change

Location: Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Life after marriage (equality)

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 29

Issue: 7

Pages: 14

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: Nov 13, 2013

Section: VIEWPOINT

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chica go, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 1461383109

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/life-after-marriage-equality/docview/1461383109/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Nov 13, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-23

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Coming Out for Community

Author: Pérez, André

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/coming-out-community/docview/1445168911/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: The queer community has been a huge source of support economically, emotionally and socially. I would not be where I am if not for a dozens of people who offered me something I had no idea how to get on my own, people who afforded me their guidance and attention, people who did me small and large favors along the way. Thank you to my roommate who gave me clothes to wear to my first professional job when I was broke.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=3&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=4&amp;date=2013-10-16&amp;atitle=Coming+Out+for+Community&amp;au=P%C3%A9rez%2C+Andr%C3%A9&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=3&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=4&amp;date=2013-10-16&amp;atitle=Coming+Out+for+Community&amp;au=P%C3%A9rez%2C+Andr%C3%A9&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   In honor of National Coming Out Day, I'm coming out as a survivor of domestic violence, as a first-generation college student, as a person who struggles with mental illness, and as an aspiring community leader.
I spent formative years of my life afraid to go home. I worked doubly hard in school because it was the only place in my life where people were supportive of me and my interests. I lived in fear. I carried all of my valued possessions with me in my car so that I could escape if it got too bad. I worried I would not be able to tell when it was too bad. An overwhelming anxiety loomed over me as I slept in that beat-up Chevy. I drove myself to college like a person on the run. I had panic attacks when I thought about going back home, so I didn't. I got another part-time job and stayed in an illegal apartment. During breaks, I housesat for professors, crashed friends' holiday celebrations, and found summer jobs that provided boarding.
Fast forward to this summer. I was riding home on the blue line after a harrowing visit with my family. I was exhausted when a wave of relaxation swept over my whole body. I felt, for the first time, that I was going to be okay. I had clung to that fear and anxiety even as I moved thousands of miles away. I had spent years projecting self-confidence and talking up my experiences as youthful adventure seeking. In reality, no matter how much I tried to convince myself that I was fine, it always felt precarious, like I was on the precipice of crisis and any wrong move could send me plummeting into it. Somehow I had found my way into the safest home I had ever known with roommates and friends and a partner to greet me.
What was the difference between then and now? Community.
The queer community has been a huge source of support economically, emotionally and socially. I would not be where I am if not for a dozens of people who offered me something I had no idea how to get on my own, people who afforded me their guidance and attention, people who did me small and large favors along the way. Thank you to my roommate who gave me clothes to wear to my first professional job when I was broke. Thank you to the college administrator who let me stay in her spare bedroom for two months when I had nowhere to go. Thank you to the dyke professor whose house I spent Christmas at. Thank you to the queer student organizer who let me use their car to get to my college job. Thank you to the gay man who recommended me for a job even though he only knew me casually, to the queer femme who let me live in her closet when I moved to the city, to the trans ally who taught me how to write a grant. These are each moments when people offered me something that didn't mean a lot to them, but meant the world to me.
Not only do I want to be the kind of adult who came into my life and made a difference, but I want to build a community that cultivates that kind of support as a baseline.
In a city so segregated by privilege and cultural difference, we need to reimagine how we as a community can be whole. Part of that equation is people who have more resources contributing them to community organizations that serve the needs of and take leadership from more marginal parts of our community. But that is not enough.
We need to invite one another into our lives. Part of privilege is having a network of people with enough slack to offer you those recommendations, that place to stay, and that opportunity to voice your opinion to the right people.
I feel fortunate enough to have the support I need in order to be out in a world where repercussions are still very real. As a trans person, my outness impacts my ability to have and maintain basic economic stability. It circumscribes the range of places where I can feel comfortable or use the restroom. But the benefits of community have far outweighed any adversity my transness has caused me. I am coming out as someone supported by community, and I am blessed.
Sidebar "What was the difference between then and now? Community."
AuthorAffiliation André is the founder of the Trans Oral History Project, co-founder of Project Fierce Chicago, and a working board member of Orgullo en Acción. When André is not rabblerousing, educating, or building community, you can hire him to photograph events and portraits by contacting him at andrealanperez@gmail.com.

Subject: Special events; Gays & lesbians; Domestic violence; Mental disorders

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Coming Out for Community

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 29

Issue: 3

Pages: 4

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: Oct 16, 2013

Section: A Queer Agenda

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill .

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 1445168911

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/coming-out-community/docview/1445168911/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 16, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-23

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Queer South Asian activist wades into marriage battle

Author: Sosin, Kate

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/queer-south-asian-activist-wades-into-marriage/docview/1445168740/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "In the South Asian community, I think it's more split, but in some of the East Asian organizations, people that I've spoken to, they're a Little more aligned with the Black and Latino queer communities where [marriage is] not helpful for certain segments of the population," [Naomi Anurag Lahiri] said. "Or if it is, it's not the first priority when someone's homeless or thinking about killing themselves."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=3&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=14&amp;date=2013-10-16&amp;atitle=Queer+South+Asian+activist+wades+into+marriage+battle&amp;au=Sosin%2C+Kate&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=3&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=14&amp;date=2013-10-16&amp;atitle=Queer+South+Asian+activist+wades+into+marriage+battle&amp;au=Sosin%2C+Kate&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   It's hard being an activist and a person, harder if the community you identify with and want to organize for is small.
But Naomi Anurag Lahiri has Learned to build. And the Longer she is active in organizing in Chicago, the more she creates.
Lahiri is not among Chicago's best-known LGBTQ organizers. At age 24, she cannot boast decades of organizing. She has been in the city just two years, and her activism has been of the variety to fall out of mainstream eyesight-the kind passed around support groups and small organizing meetings.
But that is about to change. Lahiri is among a group of grassroots activists planning the March on Springfield, a massive rally on the state capitoL calling on Illinois Lawmakers to pass equal marriage Legislation scheduled for Oct. 22.
The march, aimed at pressing for a vote on marriage equality during the General Assembly's fall veto session, has been organized in part by Windy City Times publisher Tracy Bairn.
Marriage has not been at the top of Lahiri's priorities in queer South Asian organizing. Her work has tended to focus on communities not represented in mainstream LGBTQ movements.
"In the South Asian community, I think it's more split, but in some of the East Asian organizations, people that I've spoken to, they're a Little more aligned with the Black and Latino queer communities where [marriage is] not helpful for certain segments of the population," Lahiri said. "Or if it is, it's not the first priority when someone's homeless or thinking about killing themselves."
Lahiri's work, both professionally and in organizing, has tended to deal with those other priorities-from honoring activists before her to interrupting the violence faring others in her community.
Her Latest project is a digital archive that honors the work South Asian queer women. The site, yet unfinished, will be published as part of the South Asian American Digital Archive (saadigitalarchive.org).
Lahiri is also a case manager and shelter advocate at Apna Ghar, the Chicago-based domestic violence shelter that primarily serves South Asian and immigrant families.
But it was her work with Trikone Chicago, an organization for queer South Asians, that got her hooked into the marriage issue.
Lahiri had mixed feelings about organizing for marriage.
"When I first was asked to be a part of it I openly said I don't know if I should," she said.
Marriage had not been a top agenda item in Lahiri's organizing or queer community. But other activists she respected-Affinity's Kim Hunt and transgender organizer Alexis Martinez were involved, she said. And there other reasons Lahiri saw value in taking up the issue as a queer South Asian.
"When we're not present at mainstream events and organizations, they think we don't exist," she thought.
Now, Lahiri is tasked with mobilizing her peers to attend the march.
She has built that community intentionally since she moved to Chicago Less than two years ago.
Lahiri, whose parents are Bengali, grew up in Wivenhoe, a college town in Essex County, England. When she was 13, she and her family moved to the U.S. She went to high school in Carbondale, ILL and attended University of Missouri.
It was during her time in undergrad that Lahiri started coming out. Her family was largely supportive.
Lahiri attended graduate school at the University of Illinois before moving to Chicago in January 2012 and starting work at Apna Ghar.
She found queer South Asian friends over time through Trikone and other queer events.
"They weren't necessarily activists," she noted. But they bonded in small ways-dancing to the same songs their parents played when they were Little.
But becoming involved in Chicago's queer South Asian community also came with challenges. For one, Lahiri struggled to navigate the difference between her so rial Life and her growing work as an activist.
"It used to be Like, me seeing my friends was seeing them at a meeting," Lahiri said.
Still, she had met her goals-to Live independently in the city and to get a so dal work job. And her activism expanded, in part, she says, because of the examples of older queer South Asians.
Everything came together for Lahiri recently when she attended DesiQ, Trikone's national conference in San Frandsco. Lahiri admits that meeting other activists, many of whom she read about or knew through media, Left her a Little star struck.
"Meeting everyone in person and not feeling like everyone was a celebrity, Like people who I think are famous were talking to me Like I was just another peer," Lahiri said. "There was just something special about it being queer South Asians. We all felt connected, and there was no hierarchy."
The March on Springfield is scheduled for Oct. 22 outside the CapitoL Building at noon.

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Activists; Same sex marriage; Asian people; LGBTQ rights movements

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Lahiri, Naomi Anurag

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Queer South Asian activist wades into marriage battle

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 29

Issue: 3

Pages: 14

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: Oct 16, 2013

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1445168740

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/queer-south-asian-activist-wades-into-marriage/docview/1445168740/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 16, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-08

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

LGBT domestic-violence murder stats stun advocates

Author: Sosin, Kate

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lgbt-domestic-violence-murder-stats-stun/docview/1444650234/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "Surprising? No," said [Jane Merrill]. "Horrifying? Yes...this is a really terrifying report with the highest number of homicides ever recorded."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=2&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=9&amp;date=2013-10-09&amp;atitle=LGBT+domestic-violence+murder+stats+stun+advocates&amp;au=Sosin%2C+Kate&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=2&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=9&amp;date=2013-10-09&amp;atitle=LGBT+domestic-violence+murder+stats+stun+advocates&amp;au=Sosin%2C+Kate&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   LGBT domestic violence murders hit an alltime high Last year. That is according to a new report by LGBT anti-violence groups.
The National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs (NCAVP) reported 21 domestic violence murders for 2012, more than three times its recorded number for 2010 and two more than it recorded in 2011.
Those numbers are detailed in an extensive report published Oct. 1 by LGBT groups around the county, including in Chicago.
Jane Merrill-the advocacy and community engagement coordinator for Center on Halsted, which houses Chicago's Anti-Violence Project-said that while advocates knew about the homicides before compiling the report, they were still stunned by the numbers.
"Surprising? No," said Merrill. "Horrifying? Yes...this is a really terrifying report with the highest number of homicides ever recorded."
Still, overall reported violence across the country was down by nearly 32 percent. Some ofthat decline is due to cutbacks at three organizations, but even without those groups, NCAVP found a nearly 30-percent decrease.
Youth, people of color, transgender people and gay men were hardest hit by domestic violence, according to the report.
Men represented about 36 percent of survivors compared with 33 percent of women. In 2011, women represented more than half of reported survivors.
Chicago Largely followed the national trend for 2012, Merrill noted, with some exceptions.
Among them was an exact opposite trend in reporting from the national numbers. The Center saw a 32-percent increase in reported domestic violence incidents from 2011, with 126 reported survivors. The report notes that could be due to Lack of staff turnover during 2012. (The Center has since Lost its two full-time and one part-time AVP staffers and restructured the program.)
In Chicago, nearly 53 percent of victims identified as white, while the national numbers reported 35.5 percent of victims were white. In Chicago, almost 27 percent of victims identified as Black or African-American. Fifteen percent said they were Latino, and 3 percent said they were biracial.
Those demographics reflect the Center's immediate neighborhood, noted, Merrill, suggesting a need to for outreach beyond the North Side.
In Chicago, almost 47 percent of survivors identified themselves as cisgender (or not transgender). Twenty-nine percent were men, and twenty percent identified as women.
Chicago also saw an increase in sexual violence and physical violence. Physical violence reports increased by 117 percent, the report notes. Sexual violence reports increased by a stunning 263 percent. At the same, 2012 saw a 43 percent decrease in reports of violence to police, with just 12 survivors reporting to Law enforcement.
Still, it can be hard to pull meaning from such reports, advocates note. An increase in recorded incidents does not always mean an increase in violence.
A copy of the report is at avp.org/storage/ documents/ncavp_2012_ipvreport.flnal.pdf.

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Domestic violence; Groups; Demographics

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: LGBT domestic-violence murder stats stun advocates

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 29

Issue: 2

Pages: 9

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: Oct 9, 2013

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1444650234

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lgbt-domestic-violence-murder-stats-stun/docview/1444650234/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 9, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-23

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Chicago NOW celebrates'Women Who Dared'

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chicago-now-celebrateswomen-who-dared/docview/1442769131/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [Toni Preckwinkle] has been active in supporting women issues and family issues in her more than 20 years of public service as an elected official.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=1&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2013-10-02&amp;atitle=Chicago+NOW+celebrates%27Women+Who+Dared%27&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=29&amp;issue=1&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2013-10-02&amp;atitle=Chicago+NOW+celebrates%27Women+Who+Dared%27&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   The Chicago chapter of the National Organization for Women (CNOW) hosted its annual Women Who Dared fundraiser Sept. 24.
The members honored Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle and Teatro Luna Theater Group.
Preckwinkle has been active in supporting women issues and family issues in her more than 20 years of public service as an elected official. Teatro Luna is the only pan-Latina theatre troupe in the country.
CNOW focuses on reproductive rights, women's health, ending violence against women, economic equality and Lesbian rights.

Subject: Fund raising; Womens health; Awards & honors; Domestic violence

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Preckwinkle, Toni

Company / organization: Name: National Organization for Women--NOW; NAICS: 813311

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Chicago NOW celebrates'Women Who Dared'

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 29

Issue: 1

Pages: 6

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: Oct 2, 2013

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1442769 131

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chicago-now-celebrateswomen-who-dared/docview/1442769131/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 2, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-23

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Talking with the ladies behind the BlogHer conference

Author: Toce, Sarah

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/talking-with-ladies-behind-blogher-conference/docview/1557645904/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: KB: I recently graduated with my master's in education. I'm searching for a teaching job while balanring my online identity and performing poet identity with my teaching identity. While I'm extremely proud of the identity and following I've developed online as a blogger and performing poet, it has actually presented me with unexpected challenges in finding a job.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=42&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2013-07-24&amp;atitle=Talking+with+the+ladies+behind+the+BlogHer+conference&amp;au=Toce%2C+Sarah&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=42&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2013-07-24&amp;atitle=Talking+with+the+ladies+behind+the+BlogHer+conference&amp;au=Toce%2C+Sarah&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Around the same time as AOL chatrooms and instant messaging (remember them?), blogging became the new "It" thing to do in households criss-crossing America-and around the world. It was basically a new age media cornucopia of possibilities. Need a roommate? Check out the chat board. Looking for an old friend from high school? Search CLassmates.com.
If you don't remember a time before Facebook and Twitter, I'm not sure what to do with you.
A few ladies got together in the mid-2000s to seek out Like-minded women who shared a wealth of knowledge technologically, but were nowhere to be found in human form. Poof! BlogHer was born.
According to the conference's official website, in 2005, BLogHer Co-founders Elisa Camahort Page, Jory Des Jardins and Lisa Stone held a conference to answer the question, "Where are all the women who bLog?" Today, BlogHer conferences bring together thousands of these women from around the world to discuss, inspire and connect with each other.
Windy City Times put together a roundtable discussion featuring the top brass at this year's BLogHer conference.
Windy City Times: As a strong female role model, was there a specific event that enabled you to find your inner strength?
Deb Rox (Deb on the Rocks): In my 20s I felt pretty disconnected until I started volunteering and signed up to work on an early rape-crisis/ domestic-violence hotline. That was when things clicked for me and I found more understanding and internal and community strength than I knew I had been missing.
That was decades ago, but I can still picture the cramped training room where we Listened for the 40-hour session about all sorts of anti-oppression thinking and empowerment techniques that I had never been exposed to before. Training about responding to violence against women and the subsequent work I did in that emerging field helped me understand our culture, myself and how to be with others.
Deborah Goldstein (Peaches & Coconuts): The first spoken-word event I did forced me to present my written words aloud and receive reactions in real time, on real faces, right in front of me. I don't shy from public speaking usually. My sales background provided a particular type of presentation acumen, but reading my own creative writing in front of strangers introduced me to a special brand of vulnerability. In 2010, I was selected to read a piece at BLogHer's Voices of the Year community keynote along with 14 chosen bloggers in front of hundreds of my peers. It was a terrifying and exhilarating experience which gave me the confidence I needed to write that memoir.
Kailynn Barbour (GingerSass): I've spent the past five years being involved with the LGBTQQIA community at Rutgers University in New Jersey. My involvement started with me trying to find someplace to fit in and come to terms with my sexuality, and it evolved into me being an unintentional student Leader and activist on campus.
After the TyLer dementi incident at Rutgers, which threw many of my areles and communities into national spotlight, I became a support system for many of my friends and student Leaders in more visible Leadership positions on campus. Ultimately, however, it was the unfortunate suidde of my friend and mentor that forced me to find my inner strength and to be strong for not only myself, but for my friends reeling from her death as well. In a weird way, her death actually led to a year of self-discovery for me, which eventually Led to me starting my bLog, GingerSass.
Lauren Marie Fleming (Queerie Bradshaw): My very first BlogHer changed QueerieBradshaw.com from a bLog I updated occasionally to a multiplatform brand. It not only convinced me to take my websites, online writing classes and consulting business as seriously as I would a physical office space, but it also gave me the skills and connections I needed to make it happen.
If it weren't for BlogHer, I'd have never had the idea to turn my bLog into a memoir, and now, two years Later, I have an agent shopping my book. Information I got from BLogHer's BLog to Book seminars helped me every step of the way. There's also something wonderful about seeing a Large group of women helping each other make it as businesswomen, instead of seeing each other as competition, something I saw too often in my other career fields.
Stacy Jill Calvert (Geek Till You Drop): I have had many amazing experiences throughout my professional career, but my most recent accomplishments are pivotal in the next phase of my Life. I was diagnosed with adult ADD [attention defidt disorder] five years ago and was able to document that struggle in a film that I produced Last year called A Million Directions. One portion of the film details my problems as a young woman in college because of my inability to concentrate.
This summer, I am happy to say that I am graduating with my M.S in media management from Southern Illinois University. I'm returning in the fall to continue my education by pursuing the MFA in media arts. This degree will allow me to continue down this creative path, but also allow me to pay it forward and help the next generation of media makers Learn how to express themselves.
WCT: Professionally speaking, what challenges do you feel you have faced and overcome being a strong businesswoman?
DR: Challenges for women entrepreneurs are Like pool balls: There are Lots, but we just have to hit them with a hard break and then knock them off one by one. I've had to teach myself a Lot, but now that I am a development and communications consultant for both businesses and non-profits, teaching myself about everything turned out to be great training that helped me gain a facility with working with Lots of different clients, vendors or problems.
DG: I am my own worst enemy. I am riskaverse by nature which bodes well in certain, dangerous situations. In the business world and creative world, however, being risk-averse is a career-stopper. My experience has proven that women, in general, take fewer risks than men. Whether that has to do with confidence or fear of failure or a feeling connected to and responsible for others, I'm sure I couldn't say, but the most successful people in business and the arts are those people who take risks. When I truly believe that I have nothing to Lose, and I recognize that success far outweighs failure, I can ignore my inner voices and focus on the task at hand. I can't say enough about working with creative coaches and other writers who provide perspective and invaluable feedback. They have kept me on track and challenged me to work harder and expect more. In addition to writing, I've teamed up with a sensational group of writers and editors to Launch VillageQ.com, an online destination where the LGBTQ community and our allies support and celebrate queer families. I could not have imagined myself in this role had I not worked with these talented individuals in the blogging world. Connection is essential in all industries.
KB: I recently graduated with my master's in education. I'm searching for a teaching job while balanring my online identity and performing poet identity with my teaching identity. While I'm extremely proud of the identity and following I've developed online as a blogger and performing poet, it has actually presented me with unexpected challenges in finding a job. It's still a struggle, but I'm starting to receive interviews from schools that have been un-phased by my multiple identities and successes ... or haven't Googled me yet!
LF: I went to law school and, as much as that boosted my knowledge base and made me a better businesswoman, it had the unfortunate side effect of reinforring the concept that there was one spot for a minority in each firm. This Led to the idea that we were each other's competition, not support system. I Love BLogHer Keynote Speaker Randi Zuckerberg's concept of encouraging women to grab a seat at the table and Lean in to each other for support, instead of seeing each other as threats. Women in business are starting to move forward and bring others with them to the top.
SC: I feel that the one thing that I have found in the past few years is my own voice. When I was younger, I was afraid to speak up, afraid to voice my own opinion. Once I found the strength to do that, it has helped me immensely in not only my professional Life, both other aspects as well.
WCT: What challenges still exist?
DR: FinanriaL equity is still a challenge for women founders and business developers. Finding champions and investors means dissolving some old ways of thinking in the systems with access to resources, ramping up creatively and building strong networks and pipelines of our own. In mentoring other women and LGBT business owners I also see that we continually have to coach ourselves to stop riding the brakes. We're often working without a net and with external pressure to stay small so it takes courage, but allowing momentum to build without selflimiting is powerful.
DG: My biggest challenge has always been settling for the calm that follows success. Every time I achieve a goal, I hear my inner voice saying, "Ok, now you can put your feet up because you accomplished what you set out to do. You don't need to prove to anyone that you can do more than that. You're good." But if I'm not working towards something, I eventually feel Lost. That's when I need my support network to help me rally on take on the next challenge.
KB: I regularly struggle with the intersection of my identities as an educator, a poet, a blogger, and an out Lesbian woman. All four identities are a huge part of who I am, but when they intersect, despite all of the progress that our country has made, they are met with some hesitation. Only 21 states have laws that ban discrimination based on sexual orientation, which means I could be fired in 29 states for being a teacher who happens to be Lesbian. Luckily I Live in one of those states that protects my rights, but I still bet that a Lot of school districts Googled my name upon receiving my application, saw the pages and pages of me being Listed as an "out Lesbian poet," and moved on to a different applicant. There has been a Lot of exdtement and momentum in the United States these past few weeks, but that doesn't mean that queer people don't face any challenges. Marriage equality certainly isn't the only challenge existing in our country right now, and it won't be the Last for LGBTQQIA Americans.
LF: Naps. My Love of naps is still my biggest challenge as someone who works from home.
SC: There are a Lot of challenges for queer women in business and that includes having our voices heard. However, I believe that the blogging community has opened that door for many of us and will continue to do so.
Read the entire conversation at www. win dycity me diagro up. com/Igbt/Can didroundtable-with-ladies-of-the-BlogHer-Conference/43765.html.

Subject: Writers; Role models; Gays & lesbians; Women; Blogs

People: Goldstein, Deborah; Rox, Deb; Barbour, Kailynn

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Talking with the ladies behind the BlogHer conference

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 28

Issue: 42

Pages: 10

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: Jul 24, 2013

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1557645904

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/talking-with-ladies-behind-blogher-conference/docview/1557645904/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jul 24, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-18

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

'March on Springfield' to take place Oct. 22

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/march-on-springfield-take-place-oct-22/docview/1412851529/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [Tracy Bairn] is pubLisher and executive editor at Windy City Media Group, which produces Windy City Times, Nightspots, and other gay media in Chicago. She co-founded Windy City Times in 1985. She has won numerous gay community and journalism honors, including the Community Media Workshop's Studs Terkel Award. Bairn is the editor and co-author of several books on gay history, gay media and politics. Bairn served as covice chair of the Chicago Gay Games board.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=40&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2013-07-03&amp;atitle=%27March+on+Springfield%27+to+take+place+Oct.+22&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=40&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2013-07-03&amp;atitle=%27March+on+Springfield%27+to+take+place+Oct.+22&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   A day after more than 1 million people gathered to celebrate Pride in Chicago at a parade dominated by calls for equal marriage, marriage advocates in Illinois have announced further details for the March on Springfield for Marriage Equality on Tuesday, Oct. 22, according to a press release.
The march will be organized by a group of co-chairs drawn from a diverse cross-section of Illinois' Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer communities. Among the 13 statewide co-chairs announced today are six women and seven men with diverse ethnic, racial, religious, and professional backgrounds. The March on Springfield, set for the first scheduled day of the Legislature's faLL veto session, wilL operate separately and aLongside efforts by ILLinois Unites, the broad coalition of more than 50 organizations working to pass equaL marriage in ILLinois, as weLL as with grassroots activist groups.
"Marriage equality is supported by a majority of ILLinoisans and has new urgency given actions by the U.S. Supreme Court Last week," the new group of co-chairs said in a joint statement. "When the Supreme Court struck down DOMA, married couples in 13 states and the District of Columbia gained benefits that are denied to people in ILLinois. On Oct. 22, we caLL on ILLinoisans from every waLk of Life and from every district to come to Springfield and demand fuLL equality for everyone in our State."
The group also announced early details on how corporations, small businesses, and volunteers can get involved in the effort to get peopLe to Springfield. These include crowd sourced funding through an IndieGogo campaign to be Launched next week, specially priced bus rentals, and a business partnership campaign to facilitate broad-based participation by companies and their empLoyees in the March. FuLL details, including full co-chair biographies, are posted on Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/MarchOnSpringfieLdForMarriageEquality.
March on Springfield co-chairs include:
- SoLomon Arnold: College student, media personality, and HIV/AIDS educator in the African American house baLL community.
- Tracy Bairn: Journalist, filmmaker, author, Co-vice chair of the Chicago Gay Games and pubLisher is pubLisher of Windy City Times newspaper.
- Kevin Boyer: Marketing professional, community organizer, former Co-vice chair of the Chicago Gay Games, and co-chair of GLAAD Chicago's Leadership Council.
- Buff CarmichaeL: Longtime media professionaL, former pubLisher of the Prairie FLame, and activist in Springfield.
- Brandy Donaldson: Rock Island-based media professionaL and activist within the AfricanAmerican Lesbian community.
- Emmanuel Garcia: Latino youth activist working with Association of Latino Men for Action, Crossroads Fund, Chicago's Largest queer youth prom and Cicero's LGBT community.
- Brent Holman-Gomez: Activist working within the welcoming church movement, immigration equality, and internationaL LGBTQI organizations.
- Kim Hunt: Executive Director of Affinity, an African-American LBT women's group, who was also an organizer of the Chicago Gay Games.
- Naomi Lahiri: Queer feminist with expertise in Asian issues, outreach for trans* peopLe of Asian descent, immigrant issues, and domestic vioLence outreach.
- ALexis Martinez: Transgender activist working on cross-generation work, the Dyke March pLus Latino, living wage, education and healthcare issues.
- Chris MuLLins: Activist and LGBT rights advocate and Chair of Lambda LegaL's Chicago Leadership Council
- Edith Nieves: Long-time activist on union, Lesbian, sports and Latina issues; runs Sisters 4LGBTQ Community, a lesbian sociaL network.
- Max Smith: Activist for four decades especially focused on African-American men and religious issues, and as a member of Adodi, an African-American men's organization.
For more information, contact Tracy Bairn at 773-387-2394 or publisher@windycitymediagroup.com.
About the March
The March on Springfield for Marriage Equality will take place on Oct. 22, 2013, the scheduled first day of the faLL veto session of the Illinois state Legislature. The "March on Springfield" is part of a broad grassroots strategy to secure final passage of Senate Bill 10, the "Religious Freedom and Marriage Fairness Act," already approved by the ILLinois Senate. Once adopted, ILLinois will become the 14th state plus the District of Columbia, to treat all of its citizens equally under state marriage Laws. More details are available on Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/MarchOnSpringfieLdForMarriageEquality and on Twitter at (Siili noisMarches.
Biographies
Solomon Arnold, Olive-Harvey College 2013 Valedictorian, is pursuing a bachelor's degree in communications at Chicago State University maintaining a 4.0 GPA. At CAN-TV, Arnold hosts the Russ Meek Speaks Show promoting sociaL justice and equality with a decade of experience facilitating HIV prevention programs and has produced dozens of multifaceted outreach events centered on health education, performing, and visual arts within the "ballroom community" via his own In Demand Entertainment group affiliated with the Icon House of Infiniti as "overall mother." As a community advocate, Arnold cultivates college and career readiness and is active with the Gay Liberation Network, This Is Not Over and the Coalition for Justice & Respect.
Tracy Bairn is pubLisher and executive editor at Windy City Media Group, which produces Windy City Times, Nightspots, and other gay media in Chicago. She co-founded Windy City Times in 1985. She has won numerous gay community and journalism honors, including the Community Media Workshop's Studs Terkel Award. Bairn is the editor and co-author of several books on gay history, gay media and politics. Bairn served as covice chair of the Chicago Gay Games board. Bairn was executive producer of two feature fUms, was inducted into the Chicago Gay and Lesbian Hall of Fame in 1994, and was named a Crain's Chicago Business 40 Under 40 Leader in 1995.
Kevin Boyer is a marketing & communications professionaL who has made Chicago his home for the past 25 years. A Longtime activist, he was the co-founder of the Chicagoland Area Gay & Lesbian Chamber of Commerce, co-founded October as LGBT History Month, served 2 years as Board Chair of the Gerber/Hart Library, and was the Co-VP and CMO of the 2006 Gay Games in Chicago. An inductee into Chicago's Gay & Lesbian Hall of Fame, he currently serves as the Co-Chair of the GLAAD Chicago Leadership Council.
Buff Carmichael is a native Texan who has Lived in downstate ILLinois since 1992. He is retired from the ILLinois Emergency Management Agency and, for eleven years, published Prairie FLame, a newspaper serving LGBT peopLe and allies throughout downstate ILLinois. He Lives with his partner, Jerry Bowman, in Springfield, ILLinois.
Brandy Donaldson, 30, resides in Rock Island, ILL., where she moved in 2007, from Arkansas, to further her journalism career. She spent 5 years as the political beat reporter for the Rock Island Argus/Moline Dispatch newspapers. In 2013, she Left journalism to become the customer communications manager at MidAmerican Energy Company. Brandy has a bachelor's degree in journalism and a master's in communications management. She also teaches English composition and public speaking courses part-time at Kaplan University in Davenport, Iowa. Brandy co-founded and is vicepresident of A.L.P.H.A.S (African-American Lesbian Professionals Having A Say), a not-for-profit LGBT advocacy group started in April 2012.
Emmanuel Gardais a journalist and community organizer. For the past four years he has been the Lead organizer for Chicago's Largest queer youth prom. He is the co-founder of the Association of Latino Men for Action (ALMA) Scholarship; a scholarship that is awarded annually to two Latino gay, bi youth. Currently he is Leading a sociaL marketing campaign in Cicero, IL that addresses the issues of homophobia, transphobia, and HIV/AIDS stigma within the Latino community. Garcia currently sits on the board of directors at Crossroads Fund and Elevarte Community Studio.
Brent Holman-Gomez strengthens church advocacy for LGBTQI persons through his work on the Planning Team of the 60 congregation Chicago Coalition of Welcoming Churches. His work with Gay Liberation Network has developed internationaL solidarity of LGBTQIs particularly from Iran, Russia, Honduras, and Nigeria, while calling attention to scapegoated individuals and those that would deny us our existence. A proponent of the organization Immigration Equality, Brent finances senior housing and healthcare properties for a Living. He and his husband of 12 years speak Spanish at home in Chicago.
Kim Hunt is the executive director of Affinity Community Services. Her Long history of community and coalition work includes service on the board of Gay Games VII in Chicago. Hunt is cofounder and managing partner of 0-H Community Partners, Ltd. (OHcp), a management consulting firm that provides capacity building and technical assistance services to nonprofits, foundations, and government agencies. Prior to starting OHcp, Ms. Hunt was a senior planner with the Chicago Transit Authority where she designed and managed special projects, participated in public outreach initiatives, and obtained alternative sources of funding for nontraditional services. Hunt has Master's degrees in public policy and urban planning from the University of Chicago's Harris School for Public Policy Studies and the University of Illinois at Chicago, respectively. Hunt is a published author and has written research papers on women's issues in transportation, planning and policy, and environmental justice.
Naomi Lahiri, 24, describes herself as a queer, feminist diasporic desi. She is on the board of and helps run Trikone-Chicago, a queer South Asian non-profit in Chicago. Through Trikone, Naomi has helped start a support group for the family and friends of queer South Asians, as well as a support group for trans* people of Asian descent. Naomi is a Licensed sociaL worker. She works as a shelter advocate and case manager at Apna Ghar Inc., a domestic vioLence agency that was founded to address domestic vioLence in the South Asian community. Naomi is also on the programming committee of A Long Walk Home Inc., a non-profit that uses the arts to address vioLence against women and girls.
Alexis Martinez is a transgender activist working on cross-generation work, the Dyke March, Latino and multiple other issues. She was among the Trans 100 in 2013, a national list of activists. She describes herself as Evangelical Christian, Mexican, Apache and Lesbian. She is an activist for living-wage employment, housing, education and quality healthcare.
Chris Mullins, 33, raised in Orland Park he has Lived in the north side of Chicago for over a decade. Chris has been a gay-rights advocate for years in Chicago and, for the past two years, has served as Chair for Lambda LegaL's Chicago Leadership Council·. Chris is passionate about marriage equality and particularly enjoys helping create events that are inclusive and fun, while simultaneously raising awareness and visibility for LGBT issues.
Edith Nieves is a Longtime activist and entrepreneur who is also active with the Chicago Teachers Union as a middle schoolteacher. She has extensive connections with the sports community, as well as Latina and lesbian organizations.
Max Smith came out into activism in 1972 with Michigan State's Gay Liberation Council. A Chicago citizen since 1976, he has served since 1996 with Adodi: focused on bringing more progressive and liberal affirmation of same-gender-loving people within African-American religious congregations.
From a press release.

Subject: Personal profiles; Activism; Same sex marriage; Demonstrations & protests; LGBTQ rights movements

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Arnold, Solomon; Boyer, Kevin; Donaldson, Brandy

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: 'March on Springfield' to take place Oct. 22

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 28

Issue: 40

Pages: 10

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: Jul 3, 2013

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1412851529

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/march-on-springfield-take-place-oct-22/docview/1412851529/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jul 3, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-06

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Lane Tech teacher out and proud

Author: Forman, Ross

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lane-tech-teacher-out-proud/docview/1415788764/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: When [Courtney Feuer] told schooL administrators that she was on going on maternity Leave, she met with the assistant principaL who was known for being very religious, very conservative. "When I Left her office that day, she said, 'Congratulations and pLease teLl your husband congratuLations, too,'" Feuer recalled.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=38&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=24&amp;date=2013-06-26&amp;atitle=Lane+Tech+teacher+out+and+proud&amp;au=Forman%2C+Ross&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=38&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=24&amp;date=2013-06-26&amp;atitle=Lane+Tech+teacher+out+and+proud&amp;au=Forman%2C+Ross&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   It's been a decade of extreme differences for Courtney Feuer, a teacher at Lane Tech High School on Chicago's North Side - on the personal front, that is.
During her first few years at Lane Tech, she hid her sexual orientation from almost everyone - students, administrators, parents and even fellow teachers.
"I was very careful about how much [information] I snared about myself," said Feuer, originally from Columbus, Ohio, and a Chicago resident since 1997. "I definitely did not tell students [about my sexual orientation], and was very careful about what I told colleagues."
And when she brought Kris Himebaugh, her wife, to events, they were friends, thafs it, nothing more. They didn't hold hands in public, and Feuer never introduced Himebaugh as her wife.
"I was careful about that for a while," said Feuer, 38, who came out as a sophomore at Miami (Ohio) University in 1994.
Feuer and Himebaugh, also a CPS teacher, have been together for nine years. They have twin children, two dogs and a cat, and live in the Edgewater neighborhood.
As Feuer built seniority at the school, she also started coming out more and more, perhaps to a student or a teacher here or there.
Then she became pregnant, and there was no hiding anymore, she said.
"I just thought, 'How can I bring children into the world and not be honest about my family?'" Feuer said.
Since coming out, the second time, "I have only had positive responses."
No negative responses from parents, students, faculty, or anyone.
"It's been surprisingly comfortable," she said.
In fact, a few years ago, a student came out to Feuer - and she had no idea or even a suspicion that he was gay. He told her, "Since you've been so out about your Life, I had the courage to come out to my mom."
Feuer added, "If thafs the only thing [positive] to happen because of being out, thafs fantastic."
Feuer participated in an It Gets Better video, produced by broadcast students. Himebaugh and their kids (Byron and Leona) also were in the video, filmed on campus and ultimately aired on the school news.
Feuer taught British Literature and women in Literature this year, her 10th at Lane Tech.
"The dialogue at schooL has gotten so much better," said Feuer, who has photos of Himebaugh and their kids on display in her classroom.
"I have never had an issue [being gay], which is so refreshing. It's also something that I never envisioned. When I first started here, I'LL admit, I was terrified about being discovered as gay."
The principaL at the schooL when she started was very religious, so Feuer said he felt forced to remain siLent about her orientation. The next principaL, "I think she knew [that I was gay], but don't know [for certain]," Feuer said.
When Feuer told schooL administrators that she was on going on maternity Leave, she met with the assistant principaL who was known for being very religious, very conservative. "When I Left her office that day, she said, 'Congratulations and pLease teLl your husband congratuLations, too,'" Feuer recalled.
For the first time with an administrator, Feuer then came out.
Feuer said, "ActuaLLy, if s my wife."
The administrator was very apologetic, Feuer said. In fact, the administrator went out of her way to show how accepting she was with Feuer and her sexual orientation; she has repeatedly asked about Himebaugh and sent gifts when the babies were born.
Feuer's coming-out to students was spurred by the annual Chicago Marathon. She had been training to run the event with her sister in 2007, and was fundraising for a student group that she sponsors, which raises awareness of domestic vioLence.
Many students went to the marathon, even though Feuer was not abLe to run. They cheered for Feuer's sister, who many had met.
Himebaugh was there, too.
"After the race, a few students asked who Kris was," Feuer said. "I thought I had to be honest at that point. After aLL, these are kids who trust me with a Lot of their thoughts, their ideas."
Feuer was admittedly emotionaL when she came out to students.
They were fine with a Lesbian teacher. "To them, it was Like, whatever," Feuer said.
Feuer is not part of the Lane Tech gay-straight aLLiance (GSA), mostly because of the time constraints due to her children. The Lane Tech GSA has been around for about 12 or 13 years, she said, and it was started by a straight teacher who just saw a need, she said.
Feuer estimated there are about 25 LGBT students at Lane Tech - equaLly spLit, gay and Lesbian. She recalls at Least one transgender student in recent years, though Feuer was not sure if the student had graduated.
There are about 4,500 Lane Tech students, and more than 250 teachers.
Feuer said there are other gay teachers at Lane Tech, perhaps about a dozen. One Spanish teacher, for instance, has a photo of himself and his husband on his desk.
'It's been pLeasantly surprising," she said.

Subject: Secondary school teachers; Gays & lesbians; Couples

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Feuer, Courtney

Company / organization: Name: Lane Technical High School-Chicago IL; NAICS: 611110

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Lane Tech teacher out and proud

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 28

Issue: 38

Pages: 24

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: Jun 26, 2013

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1415788764

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lane-tech-teacher-out-proud/docview/1415788764/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jun 26, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-23

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Rev. Nancy Wilson, MCC conference headed to Chicago

Author: Duff, Deanna

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rev-nancy-wilson-mcc-conference-headed-chicago/docview/1400438307/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: NW: I feel very optimistic. I don't think we'll get everything we want, but I believe DOMA will be overturned. It doesn't mean gay marriage will be universal in our country-thafs another fight, I'm afraid-but you can see the momen- tum of change in the world and the United States. For DOMA to coLLapse would be huge, but then the deeper fight is on the way. Ifs still a cause for enormous hope.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=37&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2013-06-19&amp;atitle=Rev.+Nancy+Wilson%2C+MCC+conference+headed+to+Chicago&amp;au=Duff%2C+Deanna&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=37&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2013-06-19&amp;atitle=Rev.+Nancy+Wilson%2C+MCC+conference+headed+to+Chicago&amp;au=Duff%2C+Deanna&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   For more than 40 years, the Reverend Dr. Nancy Wilson's Leadership has built bridges between faith groups, LGBT communities and the gen- eral public. Her advocacy has addressed racism, AIDS, poverty, women's rights and countless so- cial justice issues.
President Obama appointed her to the White House Council on Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships in 2011 whose current focus is ad- dressing the under-reported issue of human traf- ficking and modern-day enslavement.
Wilson became a Metropolitan Community Churches (MCC) pastor in 1972 and currently serves as their elected, global Leader. MCC is an ecumenical denomination founded in 1968 with a specific outreach mission to LGBT parishioners. There are more than 300 MCC congregations in almost two dozen countries worldwide.
People from around the world are expected in Chicago July 1-5 for MCC's General Conference XXV, "Believe." See http://believe.mccchurch. org for details.
Wilson is one of 25 Leaders on the President's Advisory Council, which represents a diverse group of nonprofits, faith-based and secular organizations. The council analyzes and makes recommendations to the Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships (OFBNP) regard- ing public polices and programs. The OFBNP was founded by executive order in 2001 by President George W. Bush. By executive order, President Obama extended the existence of the Advisory Council to 2015.
Windy City Times: How did you recognize that your calling was to join the ministry and did you face particular challenges being a les- bian?
Rev. Dr. Nancy Wilson: I grew up in the United Methodist Church in Long Island, New York, but my family wasn't particularLy religious. When I was in my early adolescence, I didn't have a vocabulary or many words to deal with being a Lesbian or female. I had a spiritual experi- ence around age 11 of feeling that whatever it was-this presence-God was my friend and that someday I'd have other friends. I remember hearing that promise. I don't have the words to describe it, but it was a mystical experience.
In coLLege, I declared as a religion major. I wasn't out of the closet about my sexuality when I started. I came out senior year before semi- nary. The Methodist seminary didn't know how to handle it [homosexuality], but they didn't kick me out. If I'd tried to stay Methodist, they would have, but it was before it was even in their disciplinary books. They didn't have words for it. They weren't happy about it, but I man- aged to stay for a few years and then finished at a Catholic seminary in Michigan. As a young person, I was drawn to the social gospel. It was a time of civil rights and the Vietnam War and I understood what I was being caLLed to do. It was an amazing adventure to start a new community, a new church [MCC], and have the freedom to do it our way.
WCT: How do you observe many young peo- ple, especially LGBT, relating to religion in today's culture?
NW: Many of the mainstream churches are opening up, but the Methodist's doors are stiLL sLammed shut to [homosexuals] being in the ministry and Lots of other churches are skating on the edge. They struggle with being com- pletely open, especially on a LocaL LeveL. I think the biggest issue for young people is what's the relevance of religion at all? Institutional reli- gion has betrayed a Lot of people whether ifs the Catholic Church's scandals, a generaL lack of justice or just irrelevance. We need to challenge ourselves and be churches that are true to their values. Hypocrisy is what reaLLy alienates and drives people away.
WCT: For some young people, they want to be involved in a religious community, but aren't embraced due to issues such as be- ing LGBT. How do you advise them to affect change-work from within the institution or from without?
NW: There is heartbreak and disappointment for young people raised in churches [who are marginalized] and also for those with no church background at all. What do they do when they want to be part of that community? I think you sometimes come in through a side door, maybe not the front door. If a church is engaged in a project or service that's helping people in need-food pantries, AA meetings, homeless programs-thafs a way to feel connected to the community.
WCT: In July 2012, President Obama's Ad- visory Council on Faith-Based and Neighbor- hood Partnerships, began earnestly address- ing human trafficking. Ifs estimated that 21 million people are enslaved in the U.S. every year. Were you surprised by the extent of the issue?
NW: I don't think anyone on the council was an expert in this area at the beginning. We all admitted how shocked we were about how much we didn't know. This is a global crisis. Ifs a do- mestic problem as well as international. Human trafficking is a Low-risk/high-profit industry. People make phenomenal amounts of money on the suffering of others. We have to flip it so this becomes a high-risk/Low-profit enterprise. We need to open our eyes that trafficking is hap- pening in many places-small towns, big cities and right under our noses-where we just don't see it.
WCT: You've said that the LGBT community needs to be particularly aware. About 10 per- cent of individuals trafficked are LGBT. Are there particular risk factors?
NW: In the U.S., about AO percent of teen run- aways are LGBT. We know these people are tar- geted by traffickers because they don't have any defense. They're easily Lured or kidnapped. From my perspective, I began to make connections that this directLy relates to religious communi- ties. Many of the 40 percent of homeless teens are runaways because of prejudice or abuse at home related to religious issues about them be- ing LGBT.
WCT: People often associate human traffick- ing with the sex trade, but aren't they also used for labor?
NW: Women, children and men are enslaved and exploited to perpetuate a certain style of Life-clothing, perfume, meat, tomatoes-the chances are that someone was flagged to work in that supply chain to make it happen. We need to ensure good practices and fair trade and fair food in our country. So much [trafficking] exists and there isn't an easy way to see or evaluate it. We need to educate people about the implica- tions of having easy and cheap access to goods and services. What if there was an app on your phone that could teLL you whether a product was made slave-free? You could verify that people worked with dignity and decent wages to pro- duce it. We all need to be conscious about this as human beings.
WCT: What progress are you witnessing?
NW: I think there is going to be an explosion of awareness in the next couple years and we're hoping that we [the council] can be a part of Longterm commitment. There are corporations who want to cooperate and are pLedging to ethi- cally operate. They're pLedging that the goods and services they produce won't invoLve labor from trafficking. We're giving out annual prizes to corporations making these commitments.
WCT: For the average person who wants to help, what can they do?
NW: There are two groups that I think are especially great on this issue. One is Slavery Footprint, slaveryfootprint.org. Before the first White House Advisory Council meeting, we took the online Slavery Footprint test. It's a self-test about what products, services and goods you use. It tells you how many people-slaves-it LikeLy took to produce those items. It's an easy, but powerful thing to do.
Polaris is another organization working to stop human trafficking and rescue those already enslaved, polarisproject.org. Sometimes you see phone numbers about domestic vioLence hot- Lines in public restrooms? They want to do that for human trafficking-publicize 1-800 numbers in restrooms, on billboards and more. People can caLL the hotline and someone will rescue them- Literally.
WCT: The council is composed of non-prof- its, secular and faith-based organizations. What role do you feel religious groups should play in public discourse?
NW: I think everybody in a diverse, public sphere should have a voice and bring their own values and views into the public square for dis- cussion, evaluation and conversation. It's a way to find common ground. Right now in Congress, we see such awful dysfunction because people's vested interests are not in seeking common ground. When faith groups want their ideology to be the only one that ruLes people's Lives, that is not appropriate and we need to safeguard against it. But they [faith groups] also represent significant constituencies that should be able to speak about their vaLues and public policy. I think secular groups should also be abLe to make a case for their vaLues.
WCT: Recent tragedies-such as the Boston Marathon bombings-have spotlighted the is- sue of religious extremism. How do you feel society can constructively address the topic without causing more divisiveness?
NW: I think we Live in a world that truthfully has more organizations working for peace than the other direction-even though it sometimes doesn't seem Like it. The worLd has been a vio- lent place for a Long time and religion can go either way. It can be a force for good, peace and justice or intolerance, hate and vioLence. Those of us who are spiritual or religious, it's our jobs to speak from a place thafs for justice, under- standing and tolerance.
Most Christians in the world are not hateful, but there are Christian extremists who're racist and violent and abusive. That distorts faith and serves a negative and dangerous viewpoint. The same is true of Islam and other religions [who have extremists]. I deeply respect other people's faiths and positions. What's important are the vaLues we share. It's very important for people of all faiths to speak out against fear and hate mongering.
WCT: The Supreme Court's ruling regarding DOMA [the Defense of Marriage Act] is ex- pected in June. Do you feel optimistic?
NW: I feel very optimistic. I don't think we'll get everything we want, but I believe DOMA will be overturned. It doesn't mean gay marriage will be universal in our country-thafs another fight, I'm afraid-but you can see the momen- tum of change in the world and the United States. For DOMA to coLLapse would be huge, but then the deeper fight is on the way. Ifs still a cause for enormous hope. I've been in this movement for over AO years and came from a time when this discussion was unimaginable. I didn't think it would happen in my Lifetime.
WCT: What progress do you foresee in the next 20 years for the LGBT community?
NW: I think transgendered people are still at an earlier place in our community's movement. I think that many people, especially younger peo- ple, will increasingly be fluid around issues of gender and sexuality. In the next 20 years, I feel that the big issues will be more gLobal-such as women's issues. The truth is, if we can help women get equaL access to education, we could end poverty. Also, a Lot of places in the world are still so far away [from progress] regarding human rights and LGBT rights. That has a Lot to do with religion, a Lot of which is exported from the U.S. We Live in a world thafs increasingly complicated and volatile in some ways. Ifs go- ing to be very interesting to see what happens.
Originally published by The Seattle Lesbian (www.theseattleLesbian.com)
For more about the conference, see http:// believe.mccchurch.org.

Subject: Clergy; Religious congregations; Community relations; Social justice; Gays & lesbians; Public policy; Human trafficking; Slave trade

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Wilson, Nancy

Company / organization: Name: Metropolitan Community Churches; NAICS: 813110

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Rev. Nancy Wilson, MCC conference headed to Chicago

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 28

Issue: 37

Pages: 8

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: Jun 19, 2013

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1400438307

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rev-nancy-wilson-mcc-conference-headed-chicago/docview/1400438307/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jun 19, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-06

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Beth Richie on race, gender and the 'prison nation'

Author: Nair, Yasmin

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/beth-richie-on-race-gender-prison-nation/docview/1368968528/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: If you're a woman, things are much worse, because our communities don't attend to the ways that we're under the controL of the prison nation. That doesn't rise up to a community priority.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=33&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2013-05-22&amp;atitle=Beth+Richie+on+race%2C+gender+and+the+%27prison+nation%27&amp;au=Nair%2C+Yasmin&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=33&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2013-05-22&amp;atitle=Beth+Richie+on+race%2C+gender+and+the+%27prison+nation%27&amp;au=Nair%2C+Yasmin&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Beth Richie is professor of African American Studies, criminology, Law and justice at the University of Illinois at Chicago and director of the university's Institute for Research on Race and Public Policy.
One of the most cited scholars on the intersection of race, gender and prisons, Richie also has a Long and illustrious history as a feminist activist and was a co-founder of INCITE!, a national organization of activist women of color working on violence.
Her new book, Arrested Justice: Black Women, Violence, and America's Prison Nation (New York University Press, 2012), is a critical examination and re-examination of several of the issues Richie has been writing about and working on for many years: prisons, the criminal Legal/justice system, and the particular vulnerabilities of women and African-American women in particular as they operate at the intersection of what Richie and many other scholars point to as a profoundly racist and misogynistic system.
Richie cut her activist teeth within the antiviolence movement, where LGBTQ and feminist activists (often the same people) have found a place to both articuLate and resist the violence done to them. So, it might surprise many that her latest work is critical of the anti-violence movement for two main reasons: the fact that it contributes to what Richie calls "the prison nation" by uncritically invoking and strengthening a Law-and-order system that expands incarceration, and its inability to consider both gender and race inequality. At the same time, Richie contends, BLack mainstream political figures and organizations ignore those whose bodies and Lives faLL outside the neat categories of race and gender.
As an exampLe, Richie considers, among others, the case of the New Jersey 4 (also known as the NJ4). Seven BLack Lesbian young women were walking in Greenwich Village one evening in 2006 when they were attacked by a man who began abusing them verbaLLy and threatening them physically, whiLe hurLing anti-gay epithets. In the confrontation that foLLowed, one of the women used a knife on the man, who was hospitalized with a Lacerated Liver. The resulting trial, where the women claimed seLf-defense, became a media sensation with the press using terms such as "lesbian wolf-pack" to describe them. Out of aLL the women, Patreese Johnson is the Last one remaining in prison. According to Richie and many other commentators, the only peopLe who eventuaLLy came to the women's aid, organizing funds and support, was a nationwide network of queer radical grassroots activists.
Richie spoke to Windy City Times in her Hyde Park home about the complex underpinnings of the NJ4 case, what it reveaLed about race, sexuaLity and gentrifkation, women and prison, her own history in the anti-vioLence movement and why she feLt compeLLed to turn a criticaL eye upon it.
Windy City Times: Most people writing critically about the criminal legal system, as you do, refer to or focus on what they term "the prison industrial complex." You focus on what you call the "prison nation." What do you mean by that term?
Beth Richie: When I use the term "prison nation," I'm referring both to the actual existence and controL exerted through the prisons, jails, prisons, detention centers, secured halfway houses, the actual buildings and the ideology. So, it's both a LiteraL meaning and a metaphorical meaning. The LiteraL meaning is of course the 7 million peopLe who are detained, the disproportionate number of peopLe of color, the harsh conditions, the distance from communities, the money that's poured into that, operating those buildings instead of funding other things. I critique that practice.
But I'm also trying to critique the ways that we think about social problems as problems related to Lawbreaking, and how we exercise a punitive or criminaLized approach to solving problems Like mental iLlness, pregnancy, sex, violence, drug addiction.
This came home to me when I was reading about the decarceration rates, or the rates of imprisonment going down, especially for women, especially for BLack women in a new study that came out. And first I thought, Oh, this is great news, I can now write about gardening or something [Laughs].
And then I realized that in some ways the dosing of the buildings doesn't change aLL that much, because as we close more buildings, we put more peopLe in ankLe braceLets, under house arrest, or make their probation Longer.
WCT: We expand sex offender registries.
BR: The registries, the registries ... I mean, thafs a prison nation without a prison. We might have fewer buildings but we haven't changed the fundamentaL ideologicaL position that says we need to controL people, keep them under surveillance, make sure that their freedom and mobility are constrained, and their options are taken away from them. That's a prison nation.
WCT: In light of all that, what do you think of hate-crime legislation, which is so popular, especially in the LGBTQ community?
BR: There again, I would start out by saying, just Like I would about aLL vioLence, that vioLence ruins Lives, it serves to threaten not just the peopLe who are directly harmed but groups of peopLe associated with that. VioLence has a symboLic meaning as weLL as a concrete meaning, and we need to find ways, serious ways, that can be sustained over time, to stop it.
[Hate-crime Legislation] empowers the state that has articulated an interest in making nonritizens out of queer people - to turn to that state to protect queer peopLe is illogicaL. It's ilLogical at best, and naive and dangerous. It means that we wi'LL somehow trust or give authority to the state to not mess up [laughs] the part of its job which is to protect peopLe from harm, when in fact it exerts such harm. It wouLd worry me to report a hate crime in a place where we have aggressive sex offender registries, for exampLe, because aLL that does is give more information about who's queer and who's not to the state, when they're going after us in other kinds of ways.
WCT: Can you expand on the part about making queer people non-citizens?
BR: The prison nation is a metaphor as weLL as a pLace, and there are Lots of examples where the state has said that our rights as queer peopLe aren't the same as other people's. PeopLe have a right to marry - not that I think thafs a right worth aLL of the effort that we're involved in - but it's a right. Our partnerships, our ability to have children, our ability to do the same kinds of things, join the military, aLL of those places where there is a prohibition of gay citizenship being exercised, however peopLe choose to do that, means that the state hasn't fuLLy recognized us as fuLL citizens. And it's when the state recognizes you as a full citizen that you can access the benefits of the state, incLuding the benefit of protection.
What we've said in hate-crime Legislation, overly simpLified, is [to ask the same state that criminalizes us to give us protection] by, in effect, saying, "We're going to ask you to protect us, even though you have not onLy not recognized our fuLL humanity as citizens, but also gone after us in some very particular ways."
We see that criminalization in the disproportionate targeting of queer youth who Live on the street, the Lack of protection inside the facilities, for queer peopLe, the inability of a schooL to accept gender-non-normative students: It's aLL of that. And yet, we're going to say, "We're hurt, help us."
WCT: The book is focused on women. A lot of the work around the prison nation or the prison industrial complex focuses on AfricanAmerican men given, for instance, the disproportionate numbers of them in prison. But your book barely mentions such issues, and there isn't even a gestural motion towards the issues facing men in prison. What was behind that decision?
BR: I intentionaLly use the term "maLe vioLence," to push the notion of a patriarchal state versus interpersonal vioLence inflicted upon women by men. But whenever you say "maLe violence," peopLe think about a male batterer, a husband battering a wife, a boyfriend battering a girLfriend. One of the things I'm trying to do here is discuss the larger structural vioLence that is inherent in patriarchy which, for me, can account for things Like vioLence, can account for police brutaLity, can account for media images that are degrading, without reducing it to the kind of sexuaL assault and domestic vioLence that typicalLy gets aLL of the attention.
Men are impLicated in the patriarchaL state in particular ways because of their privilege, but the book is about more than just individual· male vioLence.
In the question of African-Americans or Black violence and state vioLence and incarceration: On the one hand the field, incLuding activism in the field, has been appropriateLy preoccupied with the overrepresentation of Black men and incarceration. I think that has aLLowed for a narrowing of an understanding of what the reaL problem of a prison nation is. Because it's focused on the number of BLack bodies and the gender of those BLack bodies inside the waLLs. [Centralizing the] prison nation aLLows us to discuss something much bigger that, for better or worse, has equaL effects in terms of its impact on men and women.
If you're a woman, things are much worse, because our communities don't attend to the ways that we're under the controL of the prison nation. That doesn't rise up to a community priority. The prison nation is much worse for women because we're Left with the burden of both the politicaL and personaL or intimate sphere of Life - we've got to do everything in our communities, we're burdened because we are the primary care providers of prisoners we visit, we send money, make phone calls, go to court. There's disproportionate labor involved for Black women.
Most activists, even queer women of color who are in Leadership positions as prison abolitionists ... are working without a dear gender analysis.
WCT: In your critique of the anti-violence movement and what you see as its failure to address key issues faring Black and queer women in particular, you point to some harrowing examples, including the backlash against the New Jersey 4. You point out that both the mainstream African-American community and the mainstream gay and lesbian community abandoned these women, and it was left to grassroots radical organizers to mount a campaign for their support. Why do you think the New Jersey 4 were ignored by the people who might seem like the ones with the most at stake in helping them?
BR: I think they made it too complicated. The Black civil rights seLf-appointed Leadership that sees race as the master narrative to explain everything needs to hold very tight to that narrative to make it work. So [it resists] anything that complicates its agenda, be it sexuaLity, cLass, even age to some extent. They're arguing in many ways on a platform of Black respedability that does not include poor, BLack, Lesbian, young people, Let aLone only young people, only lesbians.
The same is true of queer organizing. That's why marriage and military service become the dominant issues we fight for because those are about mirroring heterosexuality: "We're just like straight people, and we deserve the same rights as straight people. We want to get married and we want to fight in the wars." And so they can't accommodate for gender very well, class very well, age very well, or anything that transgresses something that makes it either a complicated intersection or something that's not about respectability.
So, the fact that the assaults on the New Jersey 4 happened in Greenwich Village is critically important to that analysis. Greenwich Village is white, and middle-class gay manhood is just the perfection there. You can feel a difference in how that community has changed. First of all, any displays of affection, Let alone between BLack, feminine, sexual, younger women insuLt everybody and it probabLy insuLts white, middlecLass gay men who are heterosexuaLLy identified as much as it did that dude who assauLted them.
There's a gentrified, cLass dimension to that area, even the white performance of maLe queerness: the very weLL-dressed, physically attractive-in-a-very-particuLar-kind-of-way gay maLe. That appeals to a kind of progressive heterosexual group of people who are their neighbors: It's the coexistence of those two things, cLass and a performance of a certain kind of sexuality.
These kids insulted that. That pubLic space is contested territory, so I'm not sure gay men were any more sympathetic. In fact, I'm sure they weren't any more sympathetic to what happened to the New Jersey 4 than the BLack community Leaders.
And, to be very dear, anti-vioLence groups didn't show up, either. Feminist-based anti-vioLence groups that supposedly understand sexuaL assault and street harassment didn't show up, either. Because, again, the combination, of who the young women were, threatened so-caLLed feminist anaLysis.
WCT: Given all that, what made it possible for such an intense grassroots effort to spring up around the New Jersey 4?
BR: One reason is that it was so viLe, so obvious. The way it was reported, in the newspapers, even if you Look at the actual sentencing, it was aLL so aggressiveLy vioLent: the description of them as a "Lesbian wolf-pack," the interest in protecting New Yorkers from terrorism invoked as the sentencing proceeded. It was aLL so easy to see; there was no nuance.
WCT: You mentioned feminist anti-violence groups, and this book is certainly extremely critical of them. Yet, you've been doing feminist anti-violence work for a very long time. You've been both a part of it and one of its main figures. In many ways, your work has helped move anti-violence work forward. What accounts for your particular trajectory away from that and for such a strong critique?
BR: Yes, if s a very important part of what this book is. I can read the anti-vioLence movement as a pLace where I grew up poLiticaLLy, and the aitique that I offer is in part a seLf-critique. I did believe that the anti-vioLence movement was the pLace where a radicaL-feminist-of-color articuLation of politics could be actualized. I reaLLy beLieved that. So I worked a Long time - and sometimes I think too Long - inside that movement to try to change it.
I stiLl think of myseLf as a part of the movement that I describe in the book. That's because I think that if we trust it, take the movement at its word, it is one of the places where the most radicaL potential can happen. UnLike other issues, the immediacy of Life and death around violence feels Like it requires particular urgency. At the same time, there is nothing more powerful in how ifs organizing race and class in our society than the prison nation.
When you put those two together, the working out of the interrelationship between those two things is profound. I sometimes say that I feel Like growing up as I did in the anti-violence movement taught me to be a prison abolitionist, and I don't know that I would have embraced the critica LLy urgent work of prison abolition if I hadn't been in the anti-violence [movement].
So, for instance, when my cousin was hurt, and [her partner] was trying to kiLL her: I'm glad someone caLLed the poLice; she'd be dead otherwise. But here's what it also chaLLenged me to think about as an activist as weLL as a human being, a human-rights activist: What else would have possibly saved her Life? What couLd have saved her Life in a better way than the state incarcerating him? What damage did it do to her to have him aLmost kiLL her, and what damage did it do to her to incarcerate him? It raises a different set of questions. Because maLe violence, patriarchaL violence, is so raw and reaL and urgent, it asks us to ask these questions, rather than being limited to the question "Oh, no, what can do we do in this immediate situation?"
WCT: In the situation that you describe, what is the alternative at that very particular moment of violence?
BR: Something has to stop the violence. Where were the neighbors? Where was gun controL? Where was medication for his mental-heaLth probLem? Where was a reLigious institution that didn't deny and maybe even enabLe it? So aLL of these things, where were those things? I don't just mean in his history but the day before that couLd have prevented that and if not them, then an authority that couLd at that moment intervene to protect her and how do we have that authority - if we're going to rely upon a hierarchical system of authority, how do we contain that authority so that it doesn't go crazy?
And to me that's the chaLLenge. A Lot of people think about prison aboLition or nonreLiance on law enforcement as only prevention, but I think we have to bring it much more up to the moment where harm is actuaLLy being done and who else or what else could stop it. I know it means removal, separation, containment, protection. I could imagine that it might Look to people Like a poLice department. I'm not saying there shouLdn't be poLice; I'm saying there shouldn't be this kind of unreguLated authority to intervene and take away even her rights, to figure out what it is that she wants.
WCT: In what ways are her rights denied or taken away?
BR: If she failed to cooperate, she would possibly be charged with a crime herself. If she got an order of protection, and didn't turn him in if he violated it to bring her cash or to see his kids, whatever that might be, then she's in violation. She not onLy may be charged with something Like that, but she could also Lose whatever the right that comes from "oh, he was here yesterday to give me $50, but I'm calling you today because he's got a gun" and they respond, "WeLL, you Let him in yesterday."
WCT: So, she's constantly criminalized.
BR: And the cases where the women try to do the right thing, use their own judgment about what's right, but also try to do the right thing by the Law - it just feels Like that doesn't work any better, either. Take, for instance, the case of Tiawanda Moore, the Chicago woman who caLLed the police in 2010 after a case of domestic violence, was sexually harassed by an officer who responded, recorded the poLice officers who discouraged her from fiLing a complaint, and then was jailed for violating ILLinois' eavesdropping Law. [Moore was eventuaLLy acquitted] So even doing right by the system Leaves women criminaLized. And these aren't extreme stories. They're aLL too common.
WCT: Your analysis of all these issues is very much focused on African-American communities. How do you prevent it from being read as another kind of pathology, another way for people to explain away the issues facing African-Americans as inherently cultural, for instance?
BR: This is why writing a book about a movement that you're part of is tricky, because I know that one read of this couLd be, "See, that does explain violence in African-American communities." So, one strategy that I try to use when taLking about the book is to make sure to push out the anaLysis beyond the individual Level to the structuraL LeveL. In other words, the more serious indictment of state-inflicted vioLence is the one that I want to be the master narrative here. Ifs the state-inflicted vioLence that aLLows for the unchecked intimate-partner vioLence or interpersonal vioLence or community vioLence. I reaLLy do beLieve that if we were to chaLLenge a racist, patriarchaL state and get that right, we would decrease vioLence at the individual LeveL. So, I wrote it not to be evidence of what's wrong with BLack people, but for whafs wrong for BLack people. That's a reaL critical difference.
WCT: We're in Illinois, which is home to a significant anti-prison movement, and we've seen a fair amount of decarceration. Whafs your response to that?
BR: WeLL, in a prison nation, that aLmost doesn't matter. Because people are going to states of confinement that are maybe even more difficult because they're not getting the credit for being in prison. So, ifs not as though Liberation is coming from decarceration.
Sidebar "Something has to stop the violence. Where were the neighbors? Where was gun control? Where was medication for his mental-health problem? Where was a religious institution that didn't deny and maybe even enable it?"

Subject: Writers; Books; Race relations; Criminal justice; African Americans; Women

People: Richie, Beth E

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Beth Richie on race, gender and the 'prison nation'

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 28

Issue: 33

Pages: 16-17

Number of pages: 2

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: May 22, 2013

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1368968528

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/beth-richie-on-race-gender-prison-nation/docview/1368968528/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 22, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-06

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Bar association offers training regarding LGBT domestic abuse

Author: Clark, Matthew C

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bar-association-offers-training-regarding-lgbt/docview/1368968428/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "Feel free to walk out now if you don't want to get in touch with your feelings," said Director of Education & Victim Advocacy at the Center on Halsted lisa Gilmore, getting a few chuckles in response. "C'mon, ifs lunch time."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=33&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2013-05-22&amp;atitle=Bar+association+offers+training+regarding+LGBT+domestic+abuse&amp;au=Clark%2C+Matthew+C&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=33&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2013-05-22&amp;atitle=Bar+association+offers+training+regarding+LGBT+domestic+abuse&amp;au=Clark%2C+Matthew+C&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   "Feel free to walk out now if you don't want to get in touch with your feelings," said Director of Education & Victim Advocacy at the Center on Halsted lisa Gilmore, getting a few chuckles in response. "C'mon, ifs lunch time."
In a conference room at the Chicago Bar Association (CBA), a group of lawyers with the lGBT Committee were receiving a special training during their lunch hour. Except the ones training them had never made a single case in court.
On May 15, the CBA held a "Domestic Violence in the lGBT Community" forum to discuss the dynamics of domestic violence, impact on victims and the criminal justice system's response.
Gilmore, along with Jennifer S. Greene, policy advisor to Cook County State's Attorney Anita Alvarez, walked law professionals through the basics of domestic abuse, in a broader context outside of the courts, as well as answered their questions about the legal actions one might take.
The two experts walked the group through abuse, which they labeled as a behavior that occurs over time to get people to comply with one's actions or desires.
"A lot more can go into a criminal situation that are not necessarily criminal acts," Greene said.
According to the two, because lGBT people are still living in a society that carries stigma against their identity, and because laws treat lGBT people differently, it leaves them as risk for abuse.
For example, they said the recognition of parenthood under the law could become a form of power and control - the aims of abuse.
Gilmore said she offered a survivor- bas ed, choice-based perspective that did not always involve law enforcement or criminal legal action, but stressed education about healthy relationships and equality under the law.
According to Gilmore, one out of three individuals who contact the Anti-Violence Project, a program that provides support and services for survivors of abuse and violence, also contact law enforcement.
Gilmore said reasons why people may not seek help include a lack of resources, fear of disclosing identity, or a pressure from the lGBT community itself not to discuss negative relationships.
In Chicago, there a no shelters for men who are survivors of domestic abuse.
Greene said though a very few percent of victims go through the legal system for help, those who do often find help in family courts, through the civil arena without a criminal case.
"Ifs a totally different ballgame in the domestic violence courts now," she said.
Both experts discussed the various dynamics that can come in to play - many victims may call 911 repeatedly, without wanting an arrest to be made, simply to get the violence to stop in that particular situation.
Answering a question regarding the need for a battered wife defense equivalent for the lGBT community, both experts stated that rarely is that defense being used in court anymore, but rather instructed lawyers to look at the legal history of a relationship, such as if there were any prior calls made to the police.
Although both experts stated that government and the courts can't have all the answers for problems in interpersonal relationships, they also applauded legislation that responsibly dealt with domestic abuse, such as the Illinois Domestic Violence Act and the recent reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act, which specifically included projects for lGBT people.
Greene pointed to a recent survey released by the CDC, the National Intimate Partner and Sexual Violence Survey, which reported on data from 2010, but included information regarding gay and lesbian couples.
Greene, who said her role with the state's attorney focuses on victim safety and offender accountability, told Windy City Times she hopes those who attended the meeting get a broader view of domestic abuse and it's impact.
"Ifs just a matter of understanding that to be the best practitioner, there has to be a community response," she said. "We can't have a total reliance on the legal system."
Those who attended the meeting were offered a certificate for continuing legal education.
The Center on Halsted's Anti-Violence Project has a 24-hour crisis hotline available if you or someone you know is a survivor of anti-lGBTQ, queer, questioning or HIV discrimination, hate violence, domestic abuse, sexual violence or assault or police abuse or violence at 773-8712273,
For more information of the Anti-Violence Project please visit http://www.centeronhalsted.org/eva.html.

Subject: Bar associations; Attorneys; Emotional abuse; Gays & lesbians; Perceptions

Company / organization: Name: Bar Association-Chicago IL; NAICS: 813920

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Bar association offers training regarding LGBT domestic abuse

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 28

Issue: 33

Pages: 6

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: May 22, 2013

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1368968428

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bar-association-offers-training-regarding-lgbt/docview/1368968428/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 22, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-06

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Center on Halsted's gala puts Chaka Khan, honorees on center stage

Author: Wasserman, Melissa

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/center-on-halsteds-gala-puts-chaka-khan-honorees/docview/1368968379/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: There was this feeLing to the evening about famiLy and that we've come aLong way and we're recognizing the whoLe famiLy as we're heading toward fuLL equality," said [Modesto "Tico" Valle]. "It is an opportunity to bring community together and to reaLLy ceLebrate aLL the accomplishments and recognize some very important people in our community. That to me was reaLLy the feeLing Last night. The only sadness is that we weren't ceLebrating fuLL [marriage] equality.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=33&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=28&amp;date=2013-05-22&amp;atitle=Center+on+Halsted%27s+gala+puts+Chaka+Khan%2C+honorees+on+center+stage&amp;au=Wasserman%2C+Melissa&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=33&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=28&amp;date=2013-05-22&amp;atitle=Center+on+Halsted%27s+gala+puts+Chaka+Khan%2C+honorees+on+center+stage&amp;au=Wasserman%2C+Melissa&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Center on Halsted hosted its annual Human First GaLa and performance at the Hilton Chicago May 18.
The untraditionaL bLack-and-white-tie gala, which raised funds to support the Center on Halsted and the LGBTQ community it serves, was also a celebration of the advancing community and the individuals and businesses contributing to the progress. The meaning behind the gala and its title is each individual, despite sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, physical ability, ethnicity or age is, above all, human first.
"In the end, we're striving to be recognized as humans first," said Center on Halsted's CEO Modesto "Tico" Valle. "That's our work, that's our mission. We strive to be recognized as human first and we do that in many ways at the Center."
More than 800 guests including corporate and foundation sponsors of the Center, civic and city Leaders, Local and national eLected officials, major donors and supporters, as weLL as members and aLLies of the LGBT community attended the gaLa with a cocktail foLLowed by a sit-down dinner. Raffle tickets were also sold throughout the evening.
Among the poLitical guests were ILlinois Attorney GeneraL Lisa Madigan and State ComptrolLer Judy Baar Topinka.
"There was this feeLing to the evening about famiLy and that we've come aLong way and we're recognizing the whoLe famiLy as we're heading toward fuLL equality," said Valle. "It is an opportunity to bring community together and to reaLLy ceLebrate aLL the accomplishments and recognize some very important people in our community. That to me was reaLLy the feeLing Last night. The only sadness is that we weren't ceLebrating fuLL [marriage] equality. There was definitely an energy in the room that we think if s soon to come."
This year's Human First Award recipients were coupLes Sarah Schmidt and J u Lie Matthei as weLL as Jonathan "Yoni" Pizer and Brad Lippitz for their efforts in progressing marriage equality; and Richard Turner, who has been active in AIDS/HIV and LGBTQ issues, in addition to corporate and philanthropic communities. ALLstate Insurance Company was honored with the Community Spirit Award for its support of agencies nationwide around the issues of domestic violence and fiscal Literacy.
"The individuals that were honored were very much from the community and they have aLL been wonderful aLLies to Center and to many, many causes in the community," said VaLLe. "The whoLe atmosphere and the whoLe group embody giving back, hard work, hope and community."
WiLLard S. Evans Jr., president of PeopLe's Gas and North Shore Gas; Laura Ricketts, director of the Chicago Cubs, chairperson of the board of Chicago Cubs Charities and co-chair of the Human First GaLa; and state Rep. KeLLy Cassidy each presented awards to the Human First Award honorées.
Prior to each acceptance speech, videos famiLiarizing attendees with the honorées pLayed on Large screens. Schmidt and Matthei's and Pizer and Lippitz's videos displayed each of their families at home. VaLLe said this was the first time kids were featured in the videos and it added a valuable component to the evening. Kids from the two families were also present at the event along with honorées' parents to heLp ceLebrate.
"I Love the fact the LittLe boys were up there with their dads to accept the award and ceLebrate that and when you Look at our movement, especially with the Leadership among the Lesbians, Laura Ricketts and Sarah and Julie and others, that's pretty powerfuLtoo. When the honorées bring their moms and dads to ceLebrate with them, we've truLy come a Long way. We stilL have a ways to go, but stiLL, 20 years ago you couLdn't bring your parents to ceLebrate honors like this. That's just so beautiful," VaLLe said.
Ricketts and CharLes A. Schrock, chairman, president and CEO of Integrys Energy Group co-chaired this year's event, whiLe BiLLie Jean King (who did not attend) served as honorary cochair. Other honorary co-chairs were Amina Dickerson, Anne L. KapLan, Abby O'NeiL and CarroLL Joynes, and Maria Bechily and Scott H odes.
NBC Chicago Reporter NataLie Martinez emceed the event. For introductions and following remarks, VaLLe and Marcus Brady, chairperson of the board for Center on Halsted, both took the stage.
Chicago native and Grammy winner Chaka Khan headlined the event. Guests got up to dance to the Live concert. DJ Matthew Harvat foLLowed her performance, ending the evening.
"Chaka is a Legend in our community and a diva and she reaLLy put on a show for aLL of us," said VaLLe. "She rocked the house. The headLiner is aLways Like the gravy of the evening because the honorées are the headline, so it was wonderfuL to see that we had a headLiner that everyone couLd kind of connect to and everyone stood on the floor and reaLLy enjoyed the evening with Chaka."

Subject: Awards & honors; Fund raising; Gays & lesbians

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Center on Halsted's gala puts Chaka Khan, honorees on center stage

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 28

Issue: 33

Pages: 28

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: May 22, 2013

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1368968379

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/center-on-halsteds-gala-puts-chaka-khan-honorees/docview/1368968379/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 22, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-06

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

State's Attorney's LGBTQ/hate crime specialist talks crime and justice

Author: Chaitman, Steven

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/states-attorneys-lgbtq-hate-crime-specialist/docview/1366026181/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: AO: Yes, that's absolutely challenging to me. I don't know of a perfert system at this point, so ifs hard to say what would be preferabLe. There are Lots of things that give me pause in terms of how are we treating peopLe, whether there is enough restorative justice going on, I absoLutely think those conversations shouLd be happening and are happening. It's not necessarily helpfuL to just Lock that person up and throw away the key.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=32&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=12&amp;date=2013-05-15&amp;atitle=State%27s+Attorney%27s+LGBTQ%2Fhate+crime+specialist+talks+crime+and+justice&amp;au=Chaitman%2C+Steven&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=32&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=12&amp;date=2013-05-15&amp;atitle=State%27s+Attorney%27s+LGBTQ%2Fhate+crime+specialist+talks+crime+and+justice&amp;au=Chaitman%2C+Steven&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Anyone who identifies as LGBTQ has good reason to be wary of the criminal justice system, but the Cook County state's attorney's office has stocked the ranks of its victim assistance program with at Least one ally.
Alida Oeseris the state's attorney's LGBTQ and hate crimes specialist. When a case opens that clearly falls under either umbrella, it finds her desk. Oeser offers victims support and resources and helps walk them through the complicated Legal process of the felony courts.
Oeser stepped into the position in September, following in the footsteps of Anne Huffman, who held the job for nine years.
Oeser was a sociology graduate student at DePaul University. She ran the rape crisis hotline for the YWCA Metropolitan Chicago and worked simultaneously as the sexual violence support services coordinator at DePaul. Most recently, she worked for Family Rescue, a domestic violence agency on the South Side.
Windy City Times sat down with Oeser to talk about her role, its challenges and how she supports victims in the criminal Legal system.
Windy City Times: How is it that you discovered this position and why did you pursue it?
Alida Oeser: This position was kind of an accident. I didn't mean to get into this. I've been doing rape crisis counseling work and domestic violence work, and it's not necessarily what I wanted to do forever. So having the opportunity to take this position that allows me to be more active in what I consider to be my community, needing advocacy services and that kind of representation - that was really exciting for me.
WCT: What were some of the driving factors that made it feel like this was the right position whether personally or professionally?
AO: Personally, being in the LGBT community, you see it every day, how much of a struggle it is to be received, Like LegitimateLy, in your experiences in non-LGBT communities, whether it's the doctor's office, the Legal system, domestic vioLence sheLters. Wherever you're going, you have to reaLLy push to be treated in a way that feels respectful to you ... . I feeL very strongly that speaking up and being abLe to make a negative experience any more positive is what I want to be doing - taking someone who's having this horribLe situation and being abLe to walk them through it in a way that's as painLess as possible, where they're getting as much respect as possible, because they deserve it.
WCT: What is one of the key components of your role?
AO: Having access to the right Language to make sure I'm not accidentally alienating somebody by using terms with the wrong gender pronouns or anything Like that. So that's kind of my job, to make sure those conversations are happening with victims in a way that is totally sensitive to them. And that's always been true for me, regardless of my work, is Letting [the victim] Lead the conversation. I don't need to address somebody in my Language. You go ahead and set that tone and I'LL use your Language, and that's cool. To me, that's just being a good advocate.
WCT: Are you someone that victims have to specifically request?
AO: If you don't disclose that you are a member of the LGBTQ community, then no, you're not necessarily getting referred to me, and that's cool, because you don't have to have the LGBTQ advocate just because you're part of our community. I'm here as an option for peopLe, to give them a choice to know that they do have me as a resource.
That's my job, to have LGBT-specific referrals to other parts of our community, whether it's entertainment, or counseling, or dvil Litigation services, heaLth services. To some extent we do expect peopLe to be their own advocate and ask for that if necessary. There are some cases where they don't have to. If it is dear in the case summary that this was a romantic relationship between two same-sex peopLe, that's automatica^ coming to me. And I don't need to make that a big deaL. That's not the conversation we have to have. The conversation is about you and whatever services you need to feel supported. Sometimes that's going to be LGBT-specific, and sometimes that's not.
WCT: Is lack of disclosure one of the bigger roadblocks in your job thaf s beyond your control?
AO: I wouLd say so, because we can onLy pursue cases that peopLe teLL us about. So, if somebody doesn't report the case to Law enforcement, it will never get to me. I will only see it once it's charged, but if they don't want to report it, it's not going to come up, because it can't come through the court system without first stopping at the poLice station.
There are peopLe who Live in communities where they might feeL Like they're engaging in an artivity that is not going to be approved of by a poLice officer. So, I don't want to go forward about this crime that happened to me if I'm worried that they're going to be Like "weLL, why were you doing that anyway?" or "you shouldn't have been doing that anyway" or possibly "I might arrest you, anyway." There are so many concerns about just that initiaL step that, yeah, I certainly feeL a LittLe powerLess to be abLe to move that forward, because I can't control what their experience is Like at that LeveL.
WCT: Talk about the one-on-one dynamic you have with the people that you're helping.
AO: There are things that are common across aLL of these. The No. 1 most important thing I can do for anyone is Listen to them, being able to Let someone sit across from me as Long as they need to, give me as much or as LittLe information as they want, and I'm going to be abLe to provide them that space, judgment-free. And I think that that's incredibly usefuL for peopLe who are feeling unsafe and possibly unwelcome where they're at. I want to Look at it holisticaLLy, not just how is the gay part of them feeling about this.
And then it's my job to give them options and say "here's what I hear you saying" and "I think this might be usefuL to you" and "wouLd you be comfortable if I made this connection for you?" Giving them something, knowing that when they Leave me they're not on their own, is my goaL. But every situation ends up differently, because it reaLLy is based on what the person sitting across from me feels most comfortable with. Maybe today you don't want resources, but maybe in a coupLe weeks you will, and that's cool. I can check in with you, I can ask you, but at the end of the day I want it to be up to you, what you're getting out of this.
WCT: What are the biggest challenges that LGBTQ individuals face in the legal system?
AO: The Legal system is going to be complicated for anyone, espedalLy a victim of crime. I can't articulate how challenging it is to go through and not feel traumatized by your experience, not because peopLe aren't doing a great job, that's not it at aLL. But the experience itself is daunting and you're kind of passed around aLL the way up the criminal justice system. So, that means you have to talk about what happened to you over and over again, and the way peopLe respond to your story is not aLways going to be what feels best for you.
Then for people in the LGBTQ community, having to worry about - from the beginning aLL the way up - if peopLe are going to take you seriously, if they're going to beLieve you, if they're going to harass you. What if they're homophobic? If you have to ask yourseLf aLL these questions, you're starting off feeling Like, "I don't wanna be here." I can't bLame anyone for coming in feeLing Like that, because at the end of the day, you shouldn't have to be here. This shouldn't have happened to you, period. And then to be passed from one person to the next to the next to the next, it continues to feel disempowering.
That's part of what I see my job to be, is being abLe to bring you back into this experience, so it's not just other peopLe teLLing you what to do - it's up to you also. But I don't know that that's going to work for everyone. There are plenty of peopLe who come in and aren't responsive, they don't want that. Because reaLLy, at the end of the day, I might just be another person they've been passed aLong to because they didn't seek me out. I come to them, I say, "I'm here as an option." Some peopLe wiLL take me up on it and some peopLe won't.
WCT: Has it been challenging for you to be part of a system that oftentimes doesn't work as it theoretically should?
AO: Yes, that's absolutely challenging to me. I don't know of a perfert system at this point, so ifs hard to say what would be preferabLe. There are Lots of things that give me pause in terms of how are we treating peopLe, whether there is enough restorative justice going on, I absoLutely think those conversations shouLd be happening and are happening. It's not necessarily helpfuL to just Lock that person up and throw away the key. It's never going to get better if we don't talk to peopLe, if we don't come to a mutual understanding about résped and about our humanity. But I think the position I'm in and the position that our office is in is a piece, and it's meant to be a piece. I don't think it's meant to be the end of the Line. I do think that there's some element up to us as being members of the community to take it beyond that.
WCT: Other than knowing that you're available if something should happen, how else can people use you as a resource?
AO: I'm available for questions, too. If somebody has a question about what do I do and maybe they don't feel comfortabLe talking to law enforcement right away, they can call me. I may not absoluteLy have the answer but I might abLe to dired them to someone who can that I trust to answer that question. I want people in our community to be abLe to use me as a resource beyond just "something horribLe has happened to me and now I am in need of your immediate assistance."

Subject: Attorneys; Hate crimes; Gays & lesbians; Criminal justice; Homophobia

Location: Illinois; United States--US

People: Oeser, Alicia

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: State's Attorney's LGBTQ/hate crime specialist talks crime and justice

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 28

Issue: 32

Pages: 12

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: May 15, 2013

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1366026181

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/states-attorneys-lgbtq-hate-crime-specialist/docview/1366026181/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 15, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-06

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

With Malice Aforethought: LGBTQs and the criminal justice system

Author: Baim, Tracy

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/with-malice-aforethought-lgbtqs-criminal-justice/docview/1357122024/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Ignoring violence. Neighborhoods perceived as "gay" have often been targeted by gay-bashers and seriaL kiLLers. In the past, because poLice ignored the crimes or often treated them with LittLe seriousness, LGBTs organized their own street patrols and response, including a whistLe-blowing campaign in 1970s Chicago, and a 1980s Pink Angels group.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=31&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2013-05-08&amp;atitle=With+Malice+Aforethought%3A+LGBTQs+and+the+criminal+justice+system&amp;au=Baim%2C+Tracy&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=31&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2013-05-08&amp;atitle=With+Malice+Aforethought%3A+LGBTQs+and+the+criminal+justice+system&amp;au=Baim%2C+Tracy&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   The Legal definition of malice aforethought includes "an intent willfully to act in callous and wanton disregard of the consequences to human life."
Throughout much of U.S. legal history, this would be an apt description of the Legal system's approach to people beyond the traditional definitions of sexuality and gender identity.
The ways the system has harmed the LGBTQ community are many, but here are a few key historical problems:
- Sodomy and related sex Laws. They primarily targeted gay men. ILLinois was the first state to get rid of its sodomy Law, in 1961, and the U.S. Supreme Court finaLLy banned such Laws in Lawrence v. Texas in 2003.
- Targeting "vice." These commissions and police squads go after any iLLegaL activity, including prostitution. But many over-eager departments have also targeted gay men having consensual sex (without prostitution), and poLice have had handsome decoys pose as gay men in order to entrap victims in public spaces. Police even placed ads in gay papers' personals and massage sections seeking to entrap men.
- Cross-dressing Laws. Many states and cities had Laws that barred people from wearing items traditionaLly Linked to the opposite sex. These Laws aLLowed for poLice harassment and arrests. It took Chicago untiL the 1970s (first through LegaL ruLings and Later through City Council action) to eLiminate the cross-dressing Law.
- Dancing queens. While it was technically not ilLegal, poLice often harassed and arrested peopLe for dancing with a partner of the same sex. UntiL the early 1970s, most Chicago-area gay bars banned same-partner dancing to avoid additional poLice scrutiny.
- Official harassment. LGBT bars, especially prior to 1980, were targets of poLice shakedowns, and were often also harassed by the Mafia. The poLice harassment created a Large LeveL of distrust in seeking help from authorities when the businesses experienced other problems, and owners often turned to the Mob for pseudo-protection. PoLice cooperated with media to provide names of those arrested - resulting in Lost jobs and even suicides.
- Fear of authorities. Because of this fear, including potentiaL arrest, many gays did not report crimes, including shakedowns by men impersonating poLice officers, or bLackmaiLfrom other criminals. This in turn aLLowed criminals to flourish. Even today, community organizations often document higher anti-LGBT crime numbers than police do, because of this fear of reporting to authorities.
- Institutionalized bias. Past exclusion of known sexuaL-minority persons from Law Licenses, poLice employment and other jobs meant openLy LGBT peopLe did not have a seat at the tabLe in creating policies and enforcing Laws.
- Gay panic. This is a common "defense" used by those charged with violent gay attacks and murders, and it has often been successful.
- Ignoring violence. Neighborhoods perceived as "gay" have often been targeted by gay-bashers and seriaL kiLLers. In the past, because poLice ignored the crimes or often treated them with LittLe seriousness, LGBTs organized their own street patrols and response, including a whistLe-blowing campaign in 1970s Chicago, and a 1980s Pink Angels group. Ignoring violence has gone beyond ignoring neighborhood gay-bashing to ignoring or beLittling individual· complaints of crime or to inadequate investigations of homicides. Some seriaL kiLLers Likely were ab Le to continue their trade Longer because of a Lack of poLice attention to their attacks, and their victims. (John Wayne Gacy, Larry EyLer and Jeffrey Dahmer are three such exampLes.)
- Criminalization of HIV and AIDS. Gay men have been targeted for their sexuaLity based on the consequences of these types of Laws, many of them stiLL on the books. And new HIV/AIDS transmission Laws are also being passed with regressive Language.
- Intimate-partner violence. PoLice and authorities have had a difficult time handling domestic-violence cases invoLving peopLe of the same gender, or gender non-conforming peopLe. The poLice ask "who is the man" or "who is the woman" because they do not have the training to understand how LGBT relationships work.
- Mishandling transgender cases. The poLice across the U.S. have had difficulty with transgender survivors of attacks, and with solving the Large number of transgender murder cases. Victims are often treated with shocking Levels of ignorance and transphobia.
- Prison problems. Discriminatory deniaL of prison rights or privileges, derogation, and the debatable issue of segregation, which has sometimes seemed to benefit sexuaL-minority prisoners but can Lead to more discrimination or harassment by guards.
- Criminalization of sex work. Transgender peopLe, who face employment discrimination and lack of access to extremely expensive (often Life-saving) gender-related medical care, are disproportionately engaged in sex work. But even those who are not are frequentLy arrested as sex workers by poLice simply for "walking while trans."
These are just a few of the probLems related to LGBTs and the criminal justice system. There are many more probLems related to the civil courts. In the civiL courts, LGBTs have Lost custody of children, lost their homes after a partner dies, been refused adoptions and encountered many other biased decisions based on their sexuaLity or gender identity.
Many of these probLems have decreased in recent decades, solved in part by pressure from activists, help from allies, and the coming out of LGBT police officers, lawyers, judges and elected officials.
But this recent history of harassment and abuse by law enforcement and the courts stiLL has a residual impact, causing mistrust of the system, and in some cases appearing on peopLe's criminaL records stiLL today. For example, an adult man arrested for supposedly public consensual sex with another aduLt man may have to register as a sex offender.
In this speciaL Windy City Times series, we wiLL Look in depth at the criminaL LegaL system and the LGBTQ community in Cook County. Our reporters spent severaL months researching the archives, Looking into public records, interviewing authorities, visiting county facilities and taLking to peopLe who have an up-cLose view of the criminaL justice system.
In many ways, the probLems LGBTs face with the prison industrial complex are a reflection of the larger societal probLem with incarceration and of a society that wouLd spend $50,000 incarcerating someone for smoking marijuana or for steaLing $100, rather than take a reaListic approach to drugs and survivaL crimes. But perhaps by investigating further this one area of the system, we can see alternative soLutions for a system desperateLy in need of being fixed.

Subject: Criminal justice; Gays & lesbians; American history

Location: United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: With Malice Aforethought: LGBTQs and the criminal justice system

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 28

Issue: 31

Pages: 8-10

Number of pages: 3

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: May 8, 2013

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1357122024

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/with-malice-aforethought-lgbtqs-criminal-justice/docview/1357122024/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 8, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-06

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Congregation Or Chadash welcomes new rabbi

Author: Sosin, Kate

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/congregation-chadash-welcomes-new-rabbi/docview/1355073522/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "I'm very excited," [Cindy Enger] said. "Ifs a great opportunity with Lots of potential to grow with the community and to deepen what it means to be in synagogue community together."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=30&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2013-05-01&amp;atitle=Congregation+Or+Chadash+welcomes+new+rabbi&amp;au=Sosin%2C+Kate&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=30&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2013-05-01&amp;atitle=Congregation+Or+Chadash+welcomes+new+rabbi&amp;au=Sosin%2C+Kate&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   LGBT Jewish organization Congregation or Chadish is getting a new rabbi.
The Chicago-based group has announced that Rabbi Cindy Enger wiLL be fiLling that roLe come July.
Enger, who previously worked in Chicago as a Lawyer, is a former president and service Leader of the organization.
She wiLL be moving from BeLLingham, Wash., where she served as rabbi at Congregation Beth IsraeL for seven years. Her past experience also includes serving as director of the Hewish Program at the FaithTrust Institute, an organization that works to end sexuaL and domestic violence.
Enger, who identifies as a Lesbian, said she is excited to relocate to Illinois, where equal marriage appears to be on the horizon. She said she hopes to encourage a deepened communal spirituaL experience in her new role at Congregation Or Chadish.
"I'm very excited," Enger said. "Ifs a great opportunity with Lots of potential to grow with the community and to deepen what it means to be in synagogue community together."
The organization's current rabbi is Larry Edwards.
Congregation or Chadash was founded in 1975 in response to prejudice against LGBT Jews in other synagogues at that time.

Subject: Jewish organizations; Jewish Americans; Clergy; Gays & lesbians

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Enger, Cindy

Company / organization: Name: Congregation Or Chadash; NAICS: 813110

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Congregation Or Chadash welcomes new rabbi

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 28

Issue: 30

Pages: 8

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: May 1, 2013

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1355073522

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/ newspapers/congregation-chadash-welcomes-new-rabbi/docview/1355073522/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 1, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-06

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Obama signs VAWA, singles out gay center

Author: Keen, Lisa

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/obama-signs-vawa-singles-out-gay-center/docview/1323492824/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: It also includes funding for "underserved" populations "who face barriers in accessing and using victim services because of various reasons, including because of sexual orientation and gender identity." And it provides that certain grants under the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act can be used for "developing, enlarging, or strengthening programs and projects to provide services and responses targeting male and female victims of domestic violence ... whose ability to access...

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=23&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=5&amp;date=2013-03-13&amp;atitle=Obama+signs+VAWA%2C+singles+out+gay+center&amp;au=Keen%2C+Lisa&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=23&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=5&amp;date=2013-03-13&amp;atitle=Obama+signs+VAWA%2C+singles+out+gay+center&amp;au=Keen%2C+Lisa&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   In signing the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) March 7, President Obama singled out a number of activists on the issue, including the head of an LGBT anti-violence group.
"Today is about all the Americans who face discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity when they seek help," said Obama, pointing out Sharon Stapel, executive director of the New York City Anti-Violence Project, in the audience of people attending the bill signing ceremony at the Department of Interior in Washington, D.C.
A White House press release on the ceremony included Stapel's biography among those of six key participants on stage for the signing. The bio noted that Stapel also sits on the LGBT advisory committees to the New York Police Department and the New York City Family Court.
The bill reauthorizes and expands the federal VAWA, a program that was first established in 1994 to provide assistance to victims of domestic violence. The bill to reauthorize the program prohibits recipients of funding under the program from discriminating against victims because of their sexual orientation.
It also includes funding for "underserved" populations "who face barriers in accessing and using victim services because of various reasons, including because of sexual orientation and gender identity." And it provides that certain grants under the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act can be used for "developing, enlarging, or strengthening programs and projects to provide services and responses targeting male and female victims of domestic violence ... whose ability to access traditional services and responses is affected by their sexual orientation or gender identity."
Opposition to the inclusion of sexual orientation language and to Language expanded protections for women on tribal Land and women immigrants developed in the RepubLican-controLLed House Last year, delaying the bilL. The House Leadership offered a bilL excluding the expanded provisions.
The White House issued a statement Last May, identifying Obama's objections to the House bilL, incLuding that it failed to include "Language that would prohibit discrimination against LGBT victims in VAWA grant programs." The statement indicated that, if Congress sends President Obama the House version of the Legislation, his senior advisors "would recommend that he veto the bill."
With the start of a new session of Congress, House RepubLicans again tried to thwart an incLusive reauthorization biLL. But supporters of the expanded Legislation eventuaLLy prevailed and cleared the new biLL, reauthorizing the program for another five years, with funding at $659 million per year.
A report from the National CoaLition of AntiVioLence Programs found that aLmost 45 percent of LGBT peopLe and peopLe with HIV who sought heLp from domestic vioLence sheLters in 2010 were turned away because of "institutionaLized anti-LGBTQH discrimination." The report indicated it had received 5,052 reports of "intimate partner vioLence" in 2010, representing a 38 percent increase over 2009. (The report also attributed much of this increase in reporting was due to the LA Gay & Lesbian Center having received funding for its program against domestic violence program.)
Forty-six percent of the LGBT intimate partner vioLence reports came from women, 37 percent from men, and 4 percent from transgender individuals. Eleven percent of those reporting to a NationaL CoaLition center did not identify their gender or gender identity and two percent fit other categories.
Thirty-two percent identified as gay, 28 percent as Lesbian, 9 percent as bisexual, and 8 percent as heterosexuaL. The remaining 23 percent did not identify their sexual orientation or chose other categories.
OnLy 7 percent of the victims, male and female, caLLed for poLice support, a dramatic drop from 2009, when nearly 22 percent caLLed for poLice support. NearLy 55 percent of LGBT victims who sought a court order of protection were denied.
©2013 Keen News Service. All rights reserved.
AuthorAffiliation BY LISA KEEN
KEEN NEWS SERVICE

Subject: Presidents; Gays & lesbians; Community centers; Sex discrimination

Business indexing term: Subject: Sex discrimination

People: Obama, Barack

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Obama signs VAWA, singles out gay center

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 28

Issue: 23

Pages: 5

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: Mar 13, 2013

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1323492824

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/obama-signs-vawa-singles-out-gay-center/docview/1323492824/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 13, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-06

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Congress passes Violence Against Women Act

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/congress-passes-violence-against-women-act/docview/1319457050/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: In Chicago, Center on HaLsted applauded the passage. Modesto "Tico" VaLLe, the center's CEO, said, "We ceLebrate this historic vote and Legislative accomplishment.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=22&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=5&amp;date=2013-03-06&amp;atitle=Congress+passes+Violence+Against+Women+Act&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=22&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=5&amp;date=2013-03-06&amp;atitle=Congress+passes+Violence+Against+Women+Act&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   By a vote of 286-138, the House passed the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act Feb. 28, expanding protections for Native American women, LGBT individuals and immigrants, according to MSNBC.com.
The biLL, which Joe Biden wrote in 1994, has been reauthorized twice in its history without dispute. House RepubLicans unveiLed their own version of the biLL Feb. 22, excluding parts of the Native American provision, as weLL as certain protections for LGBT victims - but that version came under heavy scrutiny.
In Chicago, Center on HaLsted applauded the passage. Modesto "Tico" VaLLe, the center's CEO, said, "We ceLebrate this historic vote and Legislative accomplishment.
"We thank Congress and the President for recognizing the specific needs of LGBTQ victims and survivors of domestic, sexuaL and dating violence and staLking."

Subject: Bills; Legislatures; Domestic violence; Native North Americans; Gays & lesbians

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Congress passes Violence Against Women Act

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 28

Issue: 22

Pages: 5

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: Mar 6, 2013

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1319457050

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/congress-passes-violence-against-women-act/docview/1319457050/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 6, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-05

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

State of the Union address garners mixed reviews

Author: Keen, Lisa

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/state-union-address-garners-mixed-reviews/docview/1315322741/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: We have often said that President [MicheLLe Obama] is the most pro-LGBT president in history. His first term was fiLLed with monumental gains for LGBT people and our famiLies, incLuding the passage of a federaL hate-crimes Law, repeal of 'Don't Ask, Don't TeLL' and his decLaration of support for the freedom to marry for same-sex coupLes," said [Rea Carey]. "But the state of the union, for many LGBT peopLe, remains one of economic inequality and insecurity.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=20&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=4&amp;date=2013-02-20&amp;atitle=State+of+the+Union+address+garners+mixed+reviews&amp;au=Keen%2C+Lisa&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=20&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=4&amp;date=2013-02-20&amp;atitle=State+of+the+Union+address+garners+mixed+reviews&amp;au=Keen%2C+Lisa&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   President Obama continued his trend of including references to LGBT people in his State of the Union address Feb. 12, but he got mixed reviews from the community itself.
Early in the one-hour speech, he told Congress and the national television audience, "It is our unfinished task to restore the basic bargain that built this country - the idea that if you work hard and meet your responsibilities, you can get ahead, no matter where you come from, what you Look Like, or who you love."
Later, in taLking about the military, he said, "We wiLL ensure equal treatment for aLL service members, and equaL benefits for their families - gay and straight."
Neither the "RepubLican response" to the address, delivered by U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio (RFLa.), nor the response offered by Tea Party Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) addressed any gay specific issue.
Family Equality Council Executive Director Jennifer Chrisler singled out the president's general comment for fairness, saying, "Tonight the President made clear that every American deserves to have a shot at the American dream regardless of where they Live, what they Look Like or who they Love."
ALlyson Robinson, head of the LGBT military organization OutServe-SLDN, applauded the miLitary-specific statement, saying, "President Obama was very dear tonight in his assertion that Lesbian and gay service members and their families must be treated equaLLy by the nation they serve."
But Rea Carey, head of the NationaL Gay and Lesbian Task Force, sounded a disappointed tone.
"We have often said that President Obama is the most pro-LGBT president in history. His first term was fiLLed with monumental gains for LGBT people and our famiLies, incLuding the passage of a federaL hate-crimes Law, repeal of 'Don't Ask, Don't TeLL' and his decLaration of support for the freedom to marry for same-sex coupLes," said Carey. "But the state of the union, for many LGBT peopLe, remains one of economic inequality and insecurity. We urge President Obama to use his Leadership to help get us over the finish Line during his second term."
Carey said the president should issue an executive order banning companies that contract with the federaL government from discriminating in employment based on sexuaL orientation and gender identity. And she said Obama should "pressure" Congress to pass the Employment Non-Discrimination Act.
Anthony Martinez, executive director of The Civil Rights Agenda, a statewide LGBT group in ILlinois, expressed disappointment that Obama did not use "some of his poLitical capitaLto push for passage of [the Employment Non-Discrimination Act], immigration reforms that heLp samesex coupLes, and marriage equality in states such as ILLinois.
And Heather Cronk, managing director of the nationaL activist group GetEqual, said the president's remarks amount to "Lip service."
"Time and time again, President Obama continues to pay lip service to employment equity," said Cronk, "but refuses to take the simple step of signing an Executive Order that would end LGBT discrimination by federaL contractors - and that would prevent taxpayer doLLars, incLuding taxpayer doLLars from LGBT Americans, from going to discriminatory companies."
In his first officiaL State of the Union address, in 2010, President Obama caLLed for repeaL of the federaL Law barring openly gay peopLe from serving in the miLitary. In 2011, just a month after signing into Law the biLl that repealed "Don't Ask, Don't TeLL," the president used his State of the Union address to urge universities that had been barring miLitary recruiters over the gay ban to start aLLowing recruiters back on campus. Last year, he made one direct reference to something gay, saying that, when our servicemembers put on their uniforms, "it doesn't matter if you're black or white; Asian or Latino; conservative or Liberal; rich or poor; gay or straight."
As in past years, the White House again this year incLuded an openLy gay person among their two dozen spedai guests, sitting with First Lady MicheLLe Obama in the House gallery. This year, they chose Tracey Hepner of Arlington, Va., and a co-founder of the Military Partners and FamiLies Coalition (MPFC). The coaLition provides support and advocacy for LGBT miLitary partners and their famiLies. She also works fuLL-time for the Department of HomeLand Security as a master behavior detedion officer. She is married to the first openLy gay or Lesbian generaL officer in the military, Army Brigadier Gen. Tammy Smith.
The Human Rights Campaign noted that U.S. Rep. JerroLd NadLer (D-N.Y.) invited a same-sex coupLe, KeLLy CosteLlo and Fabiola MoraLes, to be his guests at the event.
The White House reLeased a "President's Plan for a Strong MiddLe Class and a Strong America," in conjundion with the address Feb. 12. The plan made no mention of LGBT peopLe specifically, but incLuded one sedion caLLed "Encouraging and strengthening famiLies" in which the president proposes "to remove financial deterrents to marriage for Low income coupLes, and to support and encourage fatherhood incLuding working with the faith community and the private sedor." The plan also caLLed for passage of the biLL to reauthorize the VioLence Against Women Ad but made no specific mention of the new provisions that wouLd make the program available to vidims of domestic abuse regardLess of their sexuaL orientation.
U.S. Sen. Tammy Baldwin, the first openLy gay person eleded to the Senate, issued a brief statement applauding the speech. She did not highlight either of President Obama's gay-related remarks.
©2013 Keen News Service. All rights reserved.
AuthorAffiliation BY LISA KEEN
KEEN NEWS SERVICE

Subject: Presidents; State of the Union Address; Gays & lesbians; Equality; Sexual orientation discrimination

Location: United States--US

People: Obama, Barack

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: State of the Union address garners mixed reviews

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 28

Issue: 20

Pages: 4

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: Feb 20, 2013

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1315322741

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/state-union-address-garners-mixed-reviews/docview/1315322741/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 20, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-05

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

calendar Q

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calendar-q/docview/1314951818/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Heather McDonald Writer, performer and story producer for "Chelsea Lately" and "After Lately" and has abo appeared on "Frasier", "Malcolm in the Middle", "Reno 911." Through Feb. 16. 9:30pm, Zanies Comedy Club, 1548 ? Wells St., also St. Charles and Rosemont; www.zanies.com

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=19&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=24&amp;date=2013-02-13&amp;atitle=calendar+Q&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=19&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=24&amp;date=2013-02-13&amp;atitle=calendar+Q&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Wed., Feb. 13
CALOR confidential HIV and STI testing Every Wednesday without charge, regardless of age, ability to pay or residency. The process, from completing the consent paperwork to getting the results, takes 45 minutes. Counselors are available to review the results and provide referrals, as necessary. 12pm-4pm, 773-385-9080, CALOR, 3220 W Armitage Ave., www.calor. org
LGBTQ Single and Professional Afterwork Networking Pre-Valentine's day event for LGBTQI professional men and women. Giveaways, meet and greet games. 6pm9pm, Red Kiva, 1108 W. Randolph St, Tickets: http://www.lgbtqsingleandprofessionaLeventbrite.com
CAPS meeting Community Alternative Policing Strategy meeting. Subject to change. 7pm, Clarendon Park Field House, 4501 N. Clarendon Ave., www.lakeviewcitizens. org/caps.asp
Gerber/Hart Library and Archives open meeting Community forum on the past, present and future of Gerber/Hart and will include an update on Gerber/Hart's new facility. Members of the Board of Directors and key volunteers will be on hand. A short presentation will be followed by questions, answers and dialogue. 7pm9pm, Berger Park Fieldhouse, 6205 N. Sheridan Rd., www.gerberhart.org
Cupid's Queer Comedy Show For Valentine's Day DePaul University's largest LGBTQA organization welcomes Caitlin Bergh for an evening of fun, laughter, queers and allies. Also comics Candy Lawrence, Ever Mainard, Joel Kim Booster, and Bill Cruz. $5. 7pm-9pm, DePaul University's Student Center, the Brownstones Annex, 2250 N. Sheffield Ave.
The Bom This Way Ball starring Lady Gaga Gaga and songs from Born This Way, The Fame and The Fame Monster. 7:30pm, United Center, 1901 W Madison St., Tickets: http://www.unitedcenter.com/calendar/event.asp?event_id=652
Khris Francis Musical comedy legend Khris Francis brings his four-night stand to Lake County (thru Feb. 16). Only 80 seats per show, so reservations are strongly recommended. Don't want to drive home? Book a Khris Francis overnight hotel package at Antioch Hotel & Suites starting at only $99. Fox's Lounge, 350 Route 173, Antioch, IL; 9pm, 847-395-3606, www. facebook.com/foxsantioch
Thursday, Feb. 14
Bisexual Women's V-Day Workshop with Early to Bed Workshop dedicated to women loving themselves and others of varying genders. Early to Bed will be joining us to talk about increasing your sexual pleasure, masturbation, orgasm, safer sex, toys and how to communicate about sex with your partner. RSVP to BetsyR@ howardbrown.org. 6pm-7:30pm, Howard Brown Health Center, 4025 N Sheridan Rd, www.howardbrown.org
Mo [u] min'. After., a solo performance by Brigham Mosley A mythic autobiography for the queer prodigal son - a journey to the ancestors and back to the homeland through magic, musicals, dream ballets and time traveL $10 at the door; 7pm, Mary's Attic, 5400 ? Clark St., www.hamburgermaryschicago.com/atticphp
Heather McDonald Writer, performer and story producer for "Chelsea Lately" and "After Lately" and has abo appeared on "Frasier", "Malcolm in the Middle", "Reno 911." Through Feb. 16. 9:30pm, Zanies Comedy Club, 1548 ? Wells St., also St. Charles and Rosemont; www.zanies.com
Lady Starlight Following an opening performance for Lady Gaga's Born This Way Ball at the United Center in Chicago, Illinois Lady Starlight will headline her own DJ set, joined by The Dirty Pearls. 10pm, Berlin Nightclub, 954 W Belmont Ave., www. ladystarlightnyc.com/shows/
Friday, Feb. 15
Lincoln Park Lagooners Winter Getaway Skiing, shopping, hospitality room, gay nightlife with fellow LPLers and friendly locals. Reserve room with Radisson direct by Feb. 14, 2013, ask for LPL group special rate. 12pm, 6088330100, Madison, Wis., www.lplchicago.com/blog/2013-lplwinter-getaway/
One Billion Rising: VDay Aurora "Within Evert Woman is a Goddess" will join with activists around the world for the largest action in the history of V-Day, the Vagina Monologues global activist movement to end violence against women and girls. Appetizers 6:30 pm., presentation 7:30pm Proceeds benefit Mutual Ground, Ine, the Illinois Coalition Against Domestic Violence and the V-Day Organization. $25. razena@razena.net; 630-222-1174, Prisco Community Center, 150 W. Illinois Ave., Aurora, Tickets: www.razena.net/ vdayaurora.html
From Doo Wop to Hip Hop Written and directed by Black Ensemble Theater Founder and CEO Jackie Taylor and Associate Director Rueben Echóles and produced by Jackie Taylor. Through April 24. 8pm, Black Ensemble Theater Cultural Center, 4450 N. Clark St., www.blackensemble.org
Queer Fest America Benefits Broadway Youth Center Education Dept. Performing: international queer hip hop/rapper Ripparachie, Kara O'Connor, Cold Country, Salty Peters, Kez Ban. Please bring school supplies, backpacks, pens and tablets, etc. Free show, 21+ with ID. 8:15pm, The Mutiny Chicago, 2428 ? Western Ave., www. facebook.com/broadwayyouthcenter
Mary's Old Skool House Party: Whitney Houston edition Queen of the Night: A celebration of Whitney Houston to commemorate her one year being gone from us. DJ Moose will be spinning all of Whitney's hits, album cuts, remixes, mashups and videos until 2am, mixed with some of "Nippy's" favorite friends and family: Bobby Brown, New Edition, Cissy Houston, Dionne Warwick, Jermaine, George MichaeL Luther and more. 9:30pm, Mary's Attic, 5400 ? Clark St., www.hamburgermarys.com/chicago
Saturday, Feb. 16
Depression & Bipolar Support Alliance (LGBTQ) Weekly, peer-led support group for members of the LGBTQ community with mood problems such as depression or bipolar disorder. Free. Community Room; llam-12:30pm, 872-216-3272, Howard Brown Health Center, 4025 N. Sheridan Rd., www.dbsa-glbt-chicago.com/
Immigration Equality benefit Bartender Wally Andersen hosts this benefit for Immigration Equality, an organization that is fighting to ensure that immigration rights are available for same-sex couples the same way rights are provided to opposite-sex couples. Silent auction. 5pm, The Glenwood, 6962 ? Glenwood Ave., www. theglenwoodbar.com
Asians and Friends Chinese New Year's dinner Celebration Year of the Snake with Angel Abcede and Joel Camden co-hosting a talk-variety show called "Sisters!" and interview playwright and performer Danny Bernardo of "Mahal", dancer and actor Chip Payos, and performer and director Jessica Ni. Accompanied by pianist Kevin Anderson. 6:30pm, Phoenix Restaurant, 2131 S. Archer Ave., www.afchicago.org
Ladysmith Black Mambazo Grammy-winning South African cappella choral group featured on Paul Simon's "Graceland" with intricate rhythms, harmonies, gentle humor. Elgin Children's Chorus opens with the traditional South African folk song "Shosholoza."; 8pm-9:30pm, 847-6220300, ECC Arts Center, Building H, at 1700 Spartan Dr., https://tickets.elgin.edu; Tickets: http://tickets.elgin.edu
A Night at Studio 54: Benefit for Chicago House Ashley Morgan and The Chicago Spirit Brigade take you for a Night At Studio 54, a drag review benefiting Chicago House. The cast includes Coco Sho-Nell, Dominique Diamond, Priscilla Darling, Morgan Sapphire, Roxy Stone, Juan M. Wett and members of The Chicago Spirit Brigade. $6 Absolut cocktails all day. 9:30pm, The Call (Chicago), 1547 W. Bryn
Mawr Ave., www.facebook.com/thecallbar CLLAW XV Chicago's Lady Arm Wrestlers, fearsome lady arm wrestlers decked out in over-the-top outfits, an open bar, shady referees and audience participation all wrapped into one wild, crazy, theatrical event. All proceeds from CLLAW XV will benefit Sideshow Theatre and its partner charity, Girl's Rock! Chicago. 10pm, Logan Square Auditorium, 2539 ? Kedzie Blvd, www.cllaw.org
Sunday, Feb. 17
Limmud Chicago 4th Annual Jewish Learning Conference with over 80 sessions including Judaism and same-sex love and relationships, Jewish Chicago, music, art, politics, theater-something for everyone! Join 400 Jewish Chicagoans of all persuasions for an exciting day of learning and sharing ideas. Lunch is included. Event concludes with a concert by world-famous Kol B'seder. 9am-6pm, 773-818-1343, UK Student Center, 750 S. Halsted St., www. limmudchicago.org
Urban Village Church Spiritual worship is about coming together as community to make space for God to move in us. Ifs a place to receive God's grace and love and to give of ourselves, as welL 10:15am11:30am, Urban Village Church, Spertus Institute, 610 S. Michigan Ave., www.urbanvillagechurch.org
Art & Soul: Sounds of Blackness Presented by No Wire Hangers Productions, hosted by Keith RomelL DJ 8 BalL Jon Pierce. Tovi Khali. Introducing Brian Cox; 6:30pm10pm, Funky Buddha Lounge, 728 W Grand Ave., www.nowirehangersproductions.com
Monday, Feb. 18
Lesbian, Gay Bar Association of Chicago Mentoring Program Trivia Night An evening of trivia for mentors, mentees, or those interested. Questions to damen@ lagbac.org. 7:30pm, Halsted's Bar and Grill, 3441 N Halsted St., www.lagbac.org
Building a Theatre of Inclusion: Perspectives on Asian American Casting Silk Road Rising, the League of Chicago Theatres and Lifeline Theatre will host a panel on challenges faced by Asian American actors, particularly in casting. Tickets are free and can be reserved by emailing ben@chicagoplays.com. 7pm, 77 W. Washington St., www.chicagoplays.com .
Tuesday, Feb. 19
Musical FELA! With Michelle Williams, former Destiny's Child vocalist. Online, click CHICAGO, ARIE CROWN THEATER, use the code FELA for discount. Questions to emailjbrandjr2007@gmaiLcom. www.youtube.com/watch?v=93PcWeOn-YY; 7pm10:45pm, Arie Crown Theater, 2301 S Lake Shore Dr., www.felaonbroadway.com
Fireside Chat with David Boyer Doug CCKeefe sits down with local leather legend David Boyer for a revealing fireside chat. 7:30pm-9pm, Touche, 6412 ? Clark St., www.touchechicago.com
Wed., Feb. 20
Dot429: Inspired LGBTA professional network mixer with keynotes speaker Harrison Hughes, co-founder of Want Me Get Me. Tickets are $30 in advance and $40 at the door. Hosted bar by Halsted Vodka Bar. Proceeds go to benefit the Chicago Gay Men's Chorus. RSVP online. 6pm-9pm, The Pump Room, 3101 N. State Parkway, Chicago, http://dot429.com; Tickets: http:// dot429.com/events
Friday, Feb. 22
LGBTA IIT Chicago-Kent College of Law and LAGBAC host civil rights symposium MCLE Credit. $75 before Feb. 15, $90 after. 3pm-6:15pm, Governor Richard B. Ogilvie Auditorium, 565 W. Adams St., http://cle. kentlaw.edu.
Sidebar LADY OF THE HOUSE
Wed.-Thursday, Feb. 13-14
Grammy winner Lady Gaga will perform two shows from the "Born This Way Ball" at the United Center, 1901 W. Madison St.
BOLD MCDONALD
Thursday, Feb. 14
Comic Heather McDonald will be at Zanies, 1548 N . Wells J St., in addition to other locations.
'ART'-FELT
Sunday, Feb. 17
Art & Soul: Sounds of Blackness" will take place at Funky Buddha Lounge, 728 W. Grand Ave.
Get calendar Q online:
WindyCityMediaGroup.com
ChicagoPride.com

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: calendar Q

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 28

Issue: 19

Pages: 24

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: Feb 13, 2013

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 1314951818

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calendar-q/docview/1314951818/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 13, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-05

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

'Vagina Monologues' in Aurora Feb. 15

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vagina-monologues-aurora-feb-15/docview/1314951770/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: For more information or to order tickets, contact Razena Unwin at 630-222-1174 or razena@razena.net, or visit www.razena.net/ VDayAurora.htmL.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=19&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=18&amp;date=2013-02-13&amp;atitle=%27Vagina+Monologues%27+in+Aurora+Feb.+15&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=19&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=18&amp;date=2013-02-13&amp;atitle=%27Vagina+Monologues%27+in+Aurora+Feb.+15&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   The women's group Within Every Woman is a Goddess wiLL present The Vagina MonoLogues, Friday, Feb. 15, at The Prisco Community Center, 150 W. Illinois Ave., Aurora.
Appetizers wiLL be served at 6:30 p.m. with the presentation to start at 7:30 p.m. Proceeds from this event wiLL benefit MutuaL Ground, Inc., the Illinois Coalition Against Domestic VioLence and the V-Day Organization. The cost is $25.
For more information or to order tickets, contact Razena Unwin at 630-222-1174 or razena@razena.net, or visit www.razena.net/ VDayAurora.htmL.

Subject: Theater; Fund raising

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: 'Vagina Monologues' in Aurora Feb. 15

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 28

Issue: 19

Pages: 18

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: Feb 13, 2013

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1314951770

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vagina-monologues-aurora-feb-15/docview/1314951770/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 13, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-05

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

'Vagina Monologues' in Aurora Feb. 15

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vagina-monologues-aurora-feb-15/docview/1312331986/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: For more information or to order tickets, contact Razena Unwin at 630-222-1174 or razena@razena.net, or visit www.razena.net/ VDayAurora.html.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=18&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2013-02-06&amp;atitle=%27Vagina+Monologues%27+in+Aurora+Feb.+15&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=18&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2013-02-06&amp;atitle=%27Vagina+Monologues%27+in+Aurora+Feb.+15&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   The women's group Within Every Woman is a Goddess wiLL present The Vagina MonoLogues, Friday, Feb. 15, at The Prisco Community Center, 150 W. Illinois Ave., Aurora.
Appetizers will be served at 6:30 p.m. with the presentation to start at 7:30 p.m. Proceeds from this event will benefit Mutual Ground, Inc., the Illinois Coalition Against Domestic Violence and the V-Day Organization. The cost is $25.
For more information or to order tickets, contact Razena Unwin at 630-222-1174 or razena@razena.net, or visit www.razena.net/ VDayAurora.html.

Subject: Schedules; Theater

Location: Aurora Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: 'Vagina Monologues' in Aurora Feb. 15

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 28

Issue: 18

Pages: 16

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: Feb 6, 2013

Section: KNIGHT AT THE MOVIES

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1312331986

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vagina-monologues-aurora-feb-15/docview/1312331986/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 6, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-05

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Seeing a future beyond formal LGBT equality: Talking with Urvashi Vaid

Author: Colbert, Chuck

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/seeing-future-beyond-formal-lgbt-equality-talking/docview/1282502725/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "But no," she said, "I don't think we have done a very good job" or "have made any progress" in adding, for instance "issues of poverty," HIV/AIDS health disparities, and other concerns to a gay-rights agenda, including "criminal justice issues, women's issues - vioLence against women, women earning Less than men - or expanding the definition of family in welfare programs to enable Low-income Lesbians with kids to be covered."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=15&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=4&amp;date=2013-01-16&amp;atitle=Seeing+a+future+beyond+formal+LGBT+equality%3A+Talking+with+Urvashi+Vaid&amp;au=Colbert%2C+Chuck&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=15&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=4&amp;date=2013-01-16&amp;atitle=Seeing+a+future+beyond+formal+LGBT+equality%3A+Talking+with+Urvashi+Vaid&amp;au=Colbert%2C+Chuck&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   If the LGBT movement is, at its core, a progressive struggle for justice and equality, then should not the gay-rights agenda include issues of economic, racial, class and gender? In other words, is there more to gay rights and Liberation than simply securing passage of non-discrimination Laws and gaining the right to marry?
Longtime activist and LGBT community Leader Urvashi Vaid certainly thinks so. For years now, she has been urging mainstream movement Leaders to take up broader economic-rights and racial-justice programs.
In a 1996 book, Virtual Equality: The Mainstreaming Of Gay And Lesbian Liberation, Vaid argued a Larger vision for the movement, with sodai justice as a window into the future.
And now in a new book, Irresistible Revolution: Confronting Race, Class, and the Assumptions of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender PoLitics Vaid offers pointed criticism of the movement's shortcomings on that score.
"We need a movement that is conscious of [certain] economic reaLities that reaL people are faring, she explained recently during a wideranging, hour-Long telephone interview. "And our movement must address and change the serious lack of representation of people of coLor in its Leadership, and racial justice priorities in its agenda."
Vaid was referring to a decade's worth of economic demographics, data from the WiLliams Institute and other think tanks, which show many LGBT peopLe are seniors, on Medicaid and are unempLoyed at the same time others are struggling to support themseLves and families on fixed incomes.
Speaking from her New York City office at the Columbia Law SchooL (where she currently serves as director of the Engaging Tradition Project, based at the schooL's Center for Gender and Sexuality Law), Vaid said her concern is that "we are not just a movement of young, wage-earning and middLe-class [peopLe] - which many of us are - and that is a good thing."
However, "It's not the fuLL picture of the community," said Vaid.
What the institute's data and similar findings from studies and research by the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force and the NationaL Center for Transgender Equality, among others, "heLp us to see" is "the parts of the community that are Less visible," she explained.
Accordingly, "this makes a demand on the poLitical side of our movement that perhaps we need to take a Look at issues we haven't Looked at before," Vaid said, citing recent congressionaL negotiations over the so-caLLed "fiscaL cliff'. She added, "state budgets are cutting out funding for sociaL services at a time when communities, like our community, need homeless centers, community centers and health-care programs-whatever."
"I am making the argument that those issues [of inequaLity and disparity] need to rise to prominence and that we can't just think that passing a non-discrimination law and winning marriage is the end of the process," she said. "LGBT people are dealing with unemployment, struggling with health crises - from HIV to cancer and much more, are dealing with sexual prejudice that is buiLt into every institution we encounter. Broadening the agenda is imperative for the movement to make meaningful change in the lived experience of LGBT peopLe."
Vaid wrote Irresistible RevoLution, which is a coLLection of essays on the politics of the movement, in hopes that her perspective wiLL "influence activists and others interested in sociaL justice," whether or not they Like the book, she said.
"I hope that the book can make it possible for peopLe to start thinking about our work and our agenda in different ways," Vaid said.
"None of the issues that I raise in Irresistible RevoLution about race or class are new," Vaid said when asked if any progress had been made in the movement towards a broader gay-rights agenda.
UndoubtedLy, she is no outsider to LGBT advocacy. From Leadership positions at the NationaL Gay and Lesbian Task force in the 1980s and 1990s to her work as a funder supporting LGBT issues at the Ford Foundation and the Arcus Foundation, Vaid has played a role in setting the movement priorities.
"The book has a pretty pointed critique" but is also "collegial," she said, readily acknowLedging that her analysis is, in fact, "self-criticism because I am in that group. I don't remove myseLf from that."
In aLL, "I Love the LGBT community and our movement. I feel so positively about our queer variance, our queer inteLLigence, and our queer resistance," said Vaid.
"But no," she said, "I don't think we have done a very good job" or "have made any progress" in adding, for instance "issues of poverty," HIV/AIDS health disparities, and other concerns to a gay-rights agenda, including "criminal justice issues, women's issues - vioLence against women, women earning Less than men - or expanding the definition of family in welfare programs to enable Low-income Lesbians with kids to be covered."
Therefore, to mobilize Larger numbers of feminist activists, Vaid co-founded the Lesbian Political Action Committee (LPAC), which since its founding this past July, has raised more than $750,00 from donors in 44 states, with donations ranging from $5 to $750,000. LPAC (www. teamLpac.com) is open to anyone, including bisexuaL and trans women as weLL as gay men and other aLLies who feel women's rights are as important as LGBT equaLity.
For aLL her concerns, however, Vaid is optimistic about the movement, offering another way to Look at the have-we-made-progress question. "When I see sophisticated work that activists are doing around health care, the impressive hidden work that provides access and opportunities and changes and affects peopLe's Lives, then I feel more hopefuL," she said.
"When I Look at a state Like Massachusetts where we have won formaL equaLity in many domains, I see how the movement continues to push to do the training, impLementation, and education so that aLL parts of our community can exercise the rights that we have won, that makes me feeL hopefuL," she added.
She was referring to the Massachusetts Transgender EquaL Rights Act that took effect last year after a six-year push by LocaL activists, aLong with advocates continuing to press state Lawmakers for more comprehensive anti-buLLying and safe-schools Legislation. Other statewide priorities include cradle-to-grave advocacy for LGBT youth and seniors; peopLe living with HIV/ AIDS; and survivors of intimate-partner vioLence.
There are other indictators of the LGBT movement's health and vibrancy, too. "The movement is much larger than it was back then" in earlier decades, said Vaid. "I stiLL feeL by no means has the movement peaked."
Vaid points to the Task Force's Creating Change conference, which each year draws thousands of activists, as evidence of the span of the movement from moderate to conservative to much more radical grassroots groups. (HeLd this year in Atlanta, Georgia, the 25th Creating Change gathering wiLL be held Jan. 23-27.)
"The vastness of the movement and its decentralized nature make me hopefuL," she said.
"The process of being involved in something where you reaLLy can change Lives and make a huge difference that makes the movement irresistible," said Vaid.
The LGBT movement's "honesty" is another haLLmark of its irresistibiLity, she writes in her book's introduction.
Another positive sign for LGBT rights, Vaid said, "is the extent to which [gay equaLity] is an issue for non-gay peopLe," most notabLy young peopLe. She cited the 2009 March on Washington where scores of heterosexuals, many of them students from coLLege campuses nationwide, carried signs reading, "I am a heterosexuaL aLLy."
"It is extraordinary," Vaid said. "The expansion of the movement beyond the LGBT community" to increasing numbers of heterosexuaL aLLies "is one of the reasons that we are winning."
Perhaps the best exampLe of non-gay aLLies making a difference was their key roLe in winning marriage referenda on ELection Day.
"In every one of those four states [Maine, Maryland, Minnesota, and Washington], you had heterosexuaL Leaders - major politicians, major business figures, Leaders of color, faithbased Leaders, saying 'We support this,'" Vaid explained. "Thafs reaLLy a different situation than four or eight years ago."
Sure enough, President Obama's coming out for marriage was a game-changer. "If you think about it, the supporters of the president are the peopLe who support marriage equaLity or the expansion of LGBT rights - young peopLe, women voters, peopLe of coLor who are overwhelmingly in support of fair and equal treatment," said Vaid. "If s been so interesting for me to see what Jesse Jackson used to caLLthe Rainbow CoaLition actuaLLy come into being for this eLection."
In winning marriage equaLity this time around, Lessons Learned from Proposition 8 were also helpful. "What I took away from the 2008 California defeat was the need to do more work to engage peopLe and involve non-gay peopLe in our movement," she said.
"We did go back and do more public education and engagement of different kinds of [faith-based] congregations and populations, and many, many more straight aLLies came out and stepped up to advocate on our behaLf," Vaid added. "Public education is a critical eLement of how we are winning."
For aLL her optimism, however, Vaid maintains the LGBT movement must keep up its guard. "What always worries me is the power of the opposition," she said. "I am not complacent about them. They are not just going to go away or withdraw because we are winning."
"The resistance in some ways is becoming more sophisticated, Vaid said, noting "the whole expansion of religious exemptions in laws that are passed. It's reaLLy something to be worried about."
"I think the gay community has to get more sophisticated in how we think about religious Liberty and exemptions to civil-rights laws," she explained. "It's a complicated argument for those of us who actuaLLy beLieve in freedom of religion and religious Liberty" and yet "are civil Libertarians and beLieve in the Constitution."
Ifs not yet cLear whether movement Leaders are inclined to tackLe a more incLusive LGBT agenda. But the movement has matured in one way.
"The LGBT community is more poLiticalLy hard core in how to work with friendly administrations," said Vaid, referring to President Obama's Leverage of federal government agencies through cabinet offices - including the Department of HeaLth and Human Services (HHS), the Department of Education, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), and State Department, among others - to chip away at discrimination and inequaLity. One good exampLe is a presidentiaL memorandum through which Obama directed HHS to require aLL hospitals receiving Medicaid and Medicare to prohibit discrimination in visitation against LGBT peopLe.
"There's a tremendous amount of work going on in the federal agencies, and the agenda isn't just about getting Legislation through Congress," Vaid said. "The movement is more skilled in taking advantage of those kinds of opportunities [administrative agency and regulatory processes] than we were 20 years ago."
©Copyright. Chuck Colbert. All rights reserved.

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Equality; Activists; Social justice; Books

People: Vaid, Urvashi

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Seeing a future beyond formal LGBT equality: Talking with Urvashi Vaid

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 28

Issue: 15

Pages: 4

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: Jan 16, 2013

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1282502725

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/seeing-future-beyond-formal-lgbt-equality-talking/docview/1282502725/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jan 16, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Teen Living Programs serves homeless youth on South Side

Author: Royce, Jamie Anne

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/teen-living-programs-serves-homeless-youth-on/docview/1267121613/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: The reality is, most of what we do as service providers is react," [Lynch Linas] said. "ALL the services [we offer] are a reaction to those aLready experiencing homeLessness. How do we address the fact that these young peopLe are homeLess because of poverty, because of in adequate housing, because of domestic violence, because of substance abuse? ...

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=12&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2012-12-26&amp;atitle=Teen+Living+Programs+serves+homeless+youth+on+South+Side&amp;au=Royce%2C+Jamie+Anne&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=12&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2012-12-26&amp;atitle=Teen+Living+Programs+serves+homeless+youth+on+South+Side&amp;au=Royce%2C+Jamie+Anne&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Sometimes it's just a snack or a shower. Other times it's a place to stay for the night or a free visit with a clinician. But no matter the circumstance, Teen Living Programs (TLP) serves homeless and precariously housed youth, particularly on the Southside.
When a group of Chicago sodai workers noticed homeless youth were Living in the street, they formed TLP 36 years ago. Originally based on the North Side, TLP served many young peopLe who were triaged out of the Department and FamiLy Services or had aged out of the foster care system. In the 1990s, TLP moved its services to the BronzeviLle neighborhood.
The outreach team is the first Line of defense for TLP. Peer educators - paid interns who have experienced homelessness - work in conjunction with the outreach team, visiting areas where the youth congregate to offer them basics Like a snack or safe sex kit. The ultimate goal of the team is to foster trust with the youth and get those without a place to stay into safe and stable housing.
"We work by being positive adult aLLies to the youth," said Jen* Lynch Linas, executive director of TLP.
TLP operates severaL residential programs, including a shelter for minors, a short-term transitional Living program and a subsidized independent Living program. Residents are placed by gender into female-identified and male-identified categories.
Each housing program comes with support services that vary from basic medical and psychiatric care to assistance in continuing education to finding employment.
"Young peopLe, as they come in, have had their educations interrupted by experiencing the trauma of homeLessness," Lynch Linas said, "so we work on getting them back in schooL."
Approximately 30 percent of the youth are LGBT, Lynch Linas estimates, touting the need for culturally competent services to foster a sense of trust and safety with the youth.
"The ultimate goal of the youth homeLess programs is to prevent aduLt homeLessness," Lynch Linas said. "The idea is, if we intervene at a young age, we can help them make positive choices into adulthood. Not aLL models work for everyone, so we have to think of new services and multipLe points of entry for services to best serve the youth."
But Lynch Linas does not think society has a concrete soLution for ending homeLessness, yet.
"The reality is, most of what we do as service providers is react," Lynch Linas said. "ALL the services [we offer] are a reaction to those aLready experiencing homeLessness. How do we address the fact that these young peopLe are homeLess because of poverty, because of in adequate housing, because of domestic violence, because of substance abuse? ... There is a huge bigger picture to aLL of this, and we need to figure out if our society has the capacity and the will to address the bigger picture."

Subject: Young adults; Homeless people; Gays & lesbians; Housing needs

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Lynch Linas, Jeri

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Teen Living Programs serves homeless youth on South Side

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 28

Issue: 12

Pages: 11

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Dec 26, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1267121613

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/teen-living-programs-serves-homeless-youth-on/docview/1267121613/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Dec 26, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Actress Sheryl Lee Ralph talks HIV/AIDS activism, 'Divas'

Author: Davis, Andrew

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/actress-sheryl-lee-ralph-talks-hiv-aids-activism/docview/1239097747/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: SLR: I'm so shocked that I'm about to raise the curtain on the 22nd annuaL "Divas Simply Singing." If anybody had ever toLd me that it wouLd be 22 years, I wouLd've said, "You're crazy. There'LL be a cure. There'LL be something. There'd be no need for 'Divas SimpLy Singing.'"

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=8&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=21&amp;date=2012-11-28&amp;atitle=Actress+Sheryl+Lee+Ralph+talks+HIV%2FAIDS+activism%2C+%27Divas%27&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=8&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=21&amp;date=2012-11-28&amp;atitle=Actress+Sheryl+Lee+Ralph+talks+HIV%2FAIDS+activism%2C+%27Divas%27&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   SheryL Lee Ralph is known for her various roles in the realm of entertainment, including actress (TV's Moesha), singer and Broadway star (the original cast of Dreamgirls). However, she is also passionate about fighting HIV/AIDS, and has been so for decades.
Ralph recently talked with Windy City Times about "Sometimes I Cry," her one-woman play about HIV/AIDS; her upcoming show, "Divas Simply Singing;" and whafs she's thankful for this holiday season.
Windy City Times: You were in Chicago recently.
SheryL Lee Ralph: Oh, my God! Yes, I was in Chicago - and it was one of the greatest attendances for my one-woman show ever. There were over 500 people, and we at capacity! They must've stayed in their seats for a full hour after the show was over with questions; it was amazing.
I really hope the [University of Chicago, which hosted the show and a related HIV/AIDS conference] or somebody will find another place to do it and make it cost-effective. To see the people come out the way they did was amazing.
WCT: Lef s talk about that show. If s called "Sometimes I Cry."
SLR: Yes. "Sometimes I Cry" is all about real women and real stories about HIV/AIDS. But it's not just about that - for many of these women, there's a subplot about self-esteem, Lack of information or awareness, issues of domestic violence. But ifs aLL based upon reaL women.
WCT: So how did you get these stories from real women?
SLR: It LiteraLLy happened the summer of 2002. PhiLL Wilson, who founded the Black AIDS Institute, asked me if I wouLd go on the road to cities where AIDS was not being taLked about. While we did that, I just heard so many women with their own personaL HIV/ AIDS stories. It just shifted everything for me.
It was hard enough for me to go through the start of the AIDS epidemic. The number of friends I had Lost - I made a pub Lie statement somewhere along the way that "If sex can be a death sentence for men, women cannot be too far behind." I was ridiculed for saying that; I was told I was a fooL and that I should just stop it. Now, some 30 years Later, over 50 percent of new HIV cases are women, [including] women of color.
Now, I'm going to say that if we're not careful, we're going to pass this disease on to our children - and it wiLL not be nice.
WCT: Do you think there is one factor that contributes to this rise in infection rates more than any other?
SLR: It's the same factor that pLays in the rise of any disease: siLence. SiLence is the fertilizer [the disease] needs to grow. It's the same thing as when you're a binge eater and you think you're aLL aLone and you're quiet about it. With breast cancer, there was a time when peopLe wouLd not say "breast" and "cancer" out Loud. So many diseases grow in siLence.
WCT: Back when we talked three years ago, we discussed complacency regarding HIV/ AIDS. Do you still see it happening - for example, where people say ifs OK if they get infected because they can take medication?
SLR: I see so much going on, and it frightens me. As for medication, I've never, ever met somebody who said to me, "Ah - there's nothing wrong with me. I just take a piLL and I'm fine." Trust me, this is not a back pain what you're going to take some Ibuprofen for and get through it.
WCT: On World AIDS Day (Dec. 1), you have something planned that you do every year.
SLR: I'm so shocked that I'm about to raise the curtain on the 22nd annuaL "Divas Simply Singing." If anybody had ever toLd me that it wouLd be 22 years, I wouLd've said, "You're crazy. There'LL be a cure. There'LL be something. There'd be no need for 'Divas SimpLy Singing.'"
But once again, the divas wiLL take to the stage - the Lights, the mie and the divas simply singing to the piano because we don't have enough money for a fuLL band. [Laughs] It wiLL be an incredible night.
WCT: Who will be performing besides yourself?
SLR: Some of the most committed women ever because this year (American Airlines is our supporter) we didn't have tickets how we used to, so we had to fly peopLe economy. You know what I'm saying, right? You teLL some of these women they're flying economy, it separates the divas from the divas.
Performers wiLL include LaLah Hathaway, Faith Evans, OLeta Adams, Tramaine Hawkins, Jenifer Lewis. Jamar Rogers from The Voice wiLL be there - and he's HIV-positive. EL DeBarge wiLL also be singing, and EL wiLL be presented with the [AIDS] quiLt for his brother, Bobby, who died of AIDS.
That is part of another project I worked on Last year. I was working with the AIDS Quilt and I found out that, out of the 55 miLes, Less than a mile was dedicated to peopLe of color because they wiLL not teLL their truth. So I went aLL across this country - from Mississippi to Miami to New OrLeans to Alabama to Atlanta - to get peopLe to do quilts for their Loved ones. We're going to present the quilt for Bobby DeBarge.
We've been here 22 years because we're committed - and we simpLy dared to care.
WCT: After all this time, what keeps you going?
SLR: Ifs the fact that I don't want this to be my children's [problem] and the fact that, in the beginning, I Lost some good friends who were kind men - somebody's son, somebody's father, somebody's Lover. I refuse to Let their memory just disappear.
Nobody saw what I saw. You had to see what I saw; I saw men disappear and Look Like they had been dragged out of concentration camps. Nobody saw when they couldn't waLk - and how most [of whom I saw] were Left to rot in their own shit. I saw it. I'LL never forget it as Long as I live.
I went to the hospitaL and a man had a sign at the foot of his bed that had in big red Letters, "DON'T TOUCH." I saw that.
WCT: I talked with a writer who said he lost hundreds of friends in the '80s to AIDS. I can't even imagine what that's like.
SLR: To me, the turning point was when I couLdn't cross one more name off my phone book. It was that many. You wouLd get sick and tired asking, "Whose memorial am I going to now?" It was awful.
WCT: Well, I want to switch gears with this last question. With the holiday season approaching, what are you thankful for?
SLR: Oh, my God. I'm thankfuL that I have my family around me. My father passed away because of prostate cancer, so I'm teLLing men constantly to take the test. But I'm glad to have my family; I'm happy I have a husband who supports the kind of work I do. I'm happy that my children are aware of whafs going on around them and that they care to be a part of what I'm doing. I am happy that we'LL spread the word about HIV/AIDS with the 22nd annual "Divas SimpLy Singing."
To find out more about "Divas Simply Singing," visit www.thedivafoundation.org.

Subject: Actors; Advocacy; Human immunodeficiency virus--HIV; Acquired immune deficiency syndrome--AIDS

People: Ralph, Sheryl Lee

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Actress Sheryl Lee Ralph talks HIV/AIDS activism, 'Divas'

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 28

Issue: 8

Pages: 21

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Nov 28, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1239097747

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/actress-sheryl-lee-ralph-talks-hiv-aids-activism/docview/1239097747/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Nov 28, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Intimate partner violence report cites lack of access

Author: Clark, Matthew C

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/intimate-partner-violence-report-cites-lack/docview/1115109117/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [Lisa Gilmore] noted that LGBTQH men were about twice as Likely to experience injuries when compared to the overaLL group, and that the majority of intimate partner vioLence homicide victims reported were LGBTQH men. She also noted that people of co Lor under 30 years old were four times more Likely to report experience physical vioLence and were about twice as Likely to be injured as a result of intimate partner vioLence.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=52&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2012-10-17&amp;atitle=Intimate+partner+violence+report+cites+lack+of+access&amp;au=Clark%2C+Matthew+C&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=52&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2012-10-17&amp;atitle=Intimate+partner+violence+report+cites+lack+of+access&amp;au=Clark%2C+Matthew+C&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   In an Oct. 10 telephone press conference, the National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs (NCAVP) released the major findings from its report, Intimate Partner Violence in Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and HIV-Affected (LGBTQH) Communities in the United States in 2011.
Lisa Gilmore, director of education and victim advocacy at Center on Halsted and a member of the governance committee of the NCAVP, reported some of the report's findings.
"The Lack of access to appropriate and competent criminal Legal system responses, safe shelter and other supportive services resuLts in increased exposure to harm and decreased safety," GiLmore said.
GiLmore noted that LGBTQH men were about twice as Likely to experience injuries when compared to the overaLL group, and that the majority of intimate partner vioLence homicide victims reported were LGBTQH men. She also noted that people of co Lor under 30 years old were four times more Likely to report experience physical vioLence and were about twice as Likely to be injured as a result of intimate partner vioLence.
GiLmore stated these groups were in need of competent ways to increase their safety. She cited hostile police and inability to access shelters and other forms of intimate-violence survivor support as causes for a decrease of safety rather than increase.
"For example, in Chicago there is not one single domestic-violence specific emergency sheLter bed available for any aduLt who identifies their gender as anything other than as a bioLogical woman," GiLmore said.
She stated this Lack of access makes some survivors of intimate partner vioLence dependent on having to try to predict the abuse they're experiencing, or forces them into other unsafe situations in which to navigate.
"The systems in pLace to increase safety for those abused by intimate partners must be accountable to serving aLL victims and survivors," she said.
NCAVP coLLected data concerning intimate partner vioLence within LGBTQH relationships from anti-vioLence programs in 22 states across the country, including Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, ILlinois, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Rhode Island, South CaroLina, Texas, Vermont and Washington as weLL as from the District of Columbia.
Despite the fact that the Los Angeles Gay & Lesbian Center (LAGLC) Lost funding and staff for its IPV programming, reducing the number of LGBTQH intimate partner vioLence survivors from whom they coLLected data from, the national survey stiLL found an 18.3-percent increase in reports of LGBTQH intimate partner vioLence nationwide.
The report made overaLL recommendations to policy makers and funders. It caLLed on Congress to pass a LGBTQ-incLusive VioLence Against Women Act, as weLL as making recommendations for prevention initiatives for youth and young aduLts, increasing cuLtural competency for victim service providers and increasing research and documentation.
The fuLL report is avaiLabLe at www.avp.org/do cuments/2012ReleaseIPVREPORTFinaL.pdf

Subject: Conferences; Gays & lesbians; Domestic violence; Initiatives

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Intimate partner violence report cites lack of access

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 28

Issue: 52

Pages: 6

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Oct 17, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1115109117

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/intimate-partner-violence-report-cites-lack/docview/1115109117/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 17, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Playing with porn

Author: Morgan, Scott C

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/playing-with-porn/docview/1113371545/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: It's interesting to note that both Dirty and Hot 'n' Throbbing LargeLy omit exploring LGBT pornography, save for the hinted-at girL-on-girl action intended on [Ly] to provide titillation for straight male audiences in [Andrew Hinderaker]'s play. But ifs also ironic that the only out-and-out nudity in one of the productions is that of a maLe.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=50&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=21&amp;date=2012-10-03&amp;atitle=Playing+with+porn&amp;au=Morgan%2C+Scott+C&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=50&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=21&amp;date=2012-10-03&amp;atitle=Playing+with+porn&amp;au=Morgan%2C+Scott+C&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   SCOTTISH PLAY SCOTT
Playing with porn
Can pornography be ethically and economically produced if it supports philanthropic endeavors and takes inspiration from a Whole Foods supermarket business model? And does pornography factor into causing domestic violence, or is that just an easy target to place blame and condemnation rather than seeing it as a safe outlet for exploring fantasies?
These are just a few questions explored in two ongoing productions in Chicago tied to Largely heterosexual pornography. Although The Gift Theatre's world premiere of Dirty by Andrew Hinderaker (Suicide, Inc., I Am Going to change the World) and Interrobang Theatre Project's production of the 2005 revised edition of Hot 'n' Throbbing by Lesbian playwright Paula VogeL (How I Learned to Drive, The Baltimore WaLtz) are not officiaLly connected, the issues the two shows bring up are certain Ly worth taking note.
Dirty focuses on young venture capitalist Matt (MichaeL Patrick Thornton), who teams with pregnant feminist wife Katie (Hillary CLemens) to create a pornography company that caters to ethicaLly minded aduLts. Said aduLts are the kind who aLways buy organic food and wouldn't mind paying more knowing that the majority of porn proceeds go toward a foundation to aid women worldwide to escape from prostitution and other sex trafficking.
But in the drive to take on the existing porn companies and increase the philanthropie endowment, Matt and Katie make compromises that come back to bite them - particularly when their initial moralistic guidelines are tested when they happen upon a bisexual 21-year-old mixed-race Law student named Mikayla (Mouzam Makkar), whom they figure can become their company's main personality and meal ticket.
Dirty certainly works as a dark comic drama where an unconventional· "what if idea perks up audience interest as it is played out to a conflict-filled resolution. Clocking in at more than two and a half hours, Dirty could use some trimming, even if Hinderaker and director Jonathan Berry undeniably succeed at keeping the audience engrossed to see if everything will pan out or not for his characters producing "ethical pornography."
If Hinderaker's Dirty is a straightforward dramatic narrative, Vogel's Hot 'n' Throbbing is a much more complexly muLtilayered (or jumbled, if you prefer) affair.
VogeL wrote Hot 'n' Throbbing as a response to attacks on the National Endowment for the Arts in the 1990s over "pornographic" content. With her pLay, VogeL aims to point out that violence is much more destructive and insidious than pornography, but the dramatic situation she creates in Hot 'n' Throbbing to make that case doesn't fit so neatLy together.
The main heroine of Hot 'n' Throbbing is CharLene (Christina HaLL), a stressed-out mother with two teenage kids who supports her family by writing erotic feminist fiction. Just as Charlene is pushing up against an important deadLine, she becomes seriousLy distracted.
First, there's pLenty of sparring with her kids (petulantLy pLayed by Andrew Goetten and SteLla Martin), whiLe her fictionaL sexualized characters (pLayed by Griffin Sharps and Casey Wortmann) become personified and sLink about her Living room. But most frightening is the arrival of CharLene's estranged and abusive husband, CLyde (Matthew David GeLLin), who bursts into the house and tries to sweet-taLk her to Letting him return home or have a much-needed sexual tryst.
Alas, VogeL doesn't tie her ideas neatLy together in a fuLLy coherent fashion for Hot 'n' Throbbing to make sense. An earLy act of violence that aLLows for CharLene to get the upper hand on CLyde feels Like an unLikely device that aLLows for a negotiated back-and-forth conversation. This incident dials down the initial fear and terror drummed up by Clyde's forced-entry arrival.
Hence, the whoLe tenuous question of pornography's connection to domestic vioLence doesn't get satisfactoriLy explored in Hot 'n' Throbbing, even if Vogel's script does keep an audience on edge with its bLend of heightened sexuaL theatricality and tense fear (which director Jeffry Stanton and the Interrobang Theatre Project cast and crew LargeLy succeed at in their stark and moody physical production).
It's interesting to note that both Dirty and Hot 'n' Throbbing LargeLy omit exploring LGBT pornography, save for the hinted-at girL-on-girl action intended on Ly to provide titillation for straight male audiences in Hinderaker's play. But ifs also ironic that the only out-and-out nudity in one of the productions is that of a maLe. Both Dirty and Hot 'n' Throbbing deserve credit for attempting to dramatize questions about pornography, taking on moral notions of expLoitation, freedom and o bjectifi cation.
Andrew Hinderaker's Dirty continues through Nov. 18 at The Gift Theatre, 4802 N. Milwaukee Ave., Performances are 7:30 p.m. Thursdays through Saturdays and 2:30 p.m. Sundays. Tickets are $25; call 773-283-7071 or visit www.thegifttheatre.org for more information.
Interrobang Theatre Project's Hot 'n' Throbbing by Paula Vogel continues through Oct. 21 at the Raven Theatre CompLex's West Stage, 6157 N. Clark St. Performances are at 8 p.m. Thursdays through Saturdays and 3:30 p.m. Sundays. Tickets are $25; visit www.interrobangtheatreproject.org.

Subject: Theater

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Berry, Jonathan; Thornton, Michael Patrick; Hall, Christina

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Playing with porn

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 50

Pages: 21

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Oct 3, 2012

Section: GOINGS-ON

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Theater Review-Comparative

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1113371545

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/playing-with-porn/docview/1113371545/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 3, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Chicago team are softball champs; squads fall in flag football

Author: Forman, Ross

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chicago-team-are-softball-champs-squads-fall-flag/docview/1086341996/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: The tournament is a benefit for the Madison AIDS Network and, with its championship, the DoubLe Headers also received $100 for a charity of its choosing - and the team opted for A New Direction (AND), which supports domestic violence victims in Beverly and Morgan Park. [Brad Trowbridge], an attorney who also pLays and mostLy coaches softbaLL in the Chicago MetropoLitan Sports Association (CMSA), is on the AND board of directors.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=49&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=34&amp;date=2012-09-26&amp;atitle=Chicago+team+are+softball+champs%3B+squads+fall+in+flag+football&amp;au=Forman%2C+Ross&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=49&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=34&amp;date=2012-09-26&amp;atitle=Chicago+team+are+softball+champs%3B+squads+fall+in+flag+football&amp;au=Forman%2C+Ross&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   The Chicago Double Headers defeated the Chicago Shady Ladies 16-6 to win the championship in the 5th-annual Felicia Melton-Smyth Memorial SoftbaLL Tournament (C-Division), pLayed Sept. 21-23 in Madison, Wis.
The Double Headers finished the tournament with a 6-1 record and were Led by infieLder Denis Lemus, outfieLder and hitting sensation Chris Grashoff, and pitcher Brad Trowbridge.
"Five of six teams [in our division] couLd have won the championship; there really were some top-notch pLayers," in the division, Trowbridge said. "We had to beat some really good teams to win it aLL, and we did. It was great."
The tournament is a benefit for the Madison AIDS Network and, with its championship, the DoubLe Headers also received $100 for a charity of its choosing - and the team opted for A New Direction (AND), which supports domestic violence victims in Beverly and Morgan Park. Trowbridge, an attorney who also pLays and mostLy coaches softbaLL in the Chicago MetropoLitan Sports Association (CMSA), is on the AND board of directors.
Two D-Division teams from Chicago - the CeLL Block Purple Orphans and Kit Kat Divasalso participated.
Meanwhile, in flag-footbaLL action over the weekend, the Chicago BLaze suffered a 33-14 Loss to the Philadelphia Revolution on Sunday, Sept. 23, in a semifinal game (B Division) of the Gay Bowl XII, played in Denver.
The Revolution then Lost to the Michigan Panthers.
Meanwhile, in the top-tiered A-Division, the Chicago Freeze had to settle for seventh place after a 24-20 win over the Boston Hancocks.
The San Diego Bolts defeated the New York Warriors for the Gay Bowl championship trophy.
In the inaugural women's division at the Gay Bowl, the Chicago BruiseHers BLue had to settle for fourth-place after Losing to Denver 52-0.
Denver 303 defeated BrookLyn Mavericks for the women's championship. The Mavericks eLiminated the Chicago BruiseHers BLack team 25-0.

Subject: Softball; Women; Tournaments & championships; Records & achievements

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Chicago team are softball champs; squads fall in flag football

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 49

Pages: 34

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Sep 26, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1086341996

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chicago-team-are-softball-champs-squads-fall-flag/docview/1086341996/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Sep 26, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

LGBT fall preview

Author: Morgan, Scott C

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lgbt-fall-preview/docview/1082047809/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: When it comes to compiling a List of Chicago-area LGBT shows for the fall season, where do you begin or end? Do you only include shows with LGBT characters like in Terrence McNally's Corpus Christi? Or does the List extend to works by queer authors or theater artists that might not feature any overt LGBT characters, like in Tennessee WilLiams' Sweet Bird of Youth? And what about shows that aren't specifically queer, but have big gay followings Like the musical DreamgirLs?

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=48&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=17&amp;date=2012-09-19&amp;atitle=LGBT+fall+preview&amp;au=Morgan%2C+Scott+C&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=48&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=17&amp;date=2012-09-19&amp;atitle=LGBT+fall+preview&amp;au=Morgan%2C+Scott+C&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   "Theaten's so gay!"
About Face Theatre has used this expression in the past as a badge of pride rather than a homophobic putdown. And the expression is also very true, since the theater community has historically been accepting of LGTB creative types.
But when it comes to compiling a List of Chicago-area LGBT shows for the fall season, where do you begin or end? Do you only include shows with LGBT characters like in Terrence McNally's Corpus Christi? Or does the List extend to works by queer authors or theater artists that might not feature any overt LGBT characters, like in Tennessee WilLiams' Sweet Bird of Youth? And what about shows that aren't specifically queer, but have big gay followings Like the musical DreamgirLs?
Taking these questions into account, here's a rundown of shows by category that hopefuLLy shouLd interest ardent theatergoers who are also on the Lookout for materiaL with LGBT ties.
World and local premieres
Kinky Boots, Bank of America Theatre, Oct. 2-Nov. 4. Perhaps the highest-profile show of the faLL season is this pre-Broadway worLd premiere featuring an originaL score by pop icon Cyndi Lauper and a book by award-winning out perform er/pLay wright Harvey Fierstein. Kinky Boots is based on the British fiLm of the same name that foLLows a struggLing shoe manufacturer who takes the advice of a drag queen to start producing pLus-size fetish footwear as a way to save the business from going under. 800-7752000 or www.broadwayinchicago.com
CLEAR: A New Musical Experience, About Face Theatre at Millennium Park Pritzker Pavilion, Oct. 11-13. This concert musical featuring a score by Paul OakLey StovaLL, with additionaL music by Stew (Passing Strange), jumps about the globe to find out that change is inevitable and can be revolutionary. 773-784-8565, ext. 11, or www.aboutfacetheatre.com
At the Flash, Pride Films and PLays at Center on HaLsted's Hoover-Leppen Theater, Nov. 16Dec. 16. This comic drama by Sean ChandLer and David Leeper condenses LGBT history through the stories of five characters: a cLoseted man in the 1960s, a Black drag queen in the 1970s, a club kid in the 1980s, a Lesbian activist in the 1990s and an entrepreneur in the 2000s. www. pridefilmsandpLays.com
2012 Gay Screenplay Weekend, Pride Films and PLays at Center on HaLsted's Hoover-Leppen Theater, Oct. 19-21. Pride Films and PLays artistic director David Zak oversees this weekend of staged readings of new screenplays aLL with overtLy LGBT characters and pLot angles, www. pridefilmsandpLays.com
Revivals
These shows have already pLayed Chicago, but they're aLways new to somebody in the audience.
Sweet Bird of Youth, Goodman Theatre, now to Oct. 25. Out director David Cromer's plans to direct this Tennessee WiLLiams drama on Broadway feLL through, but thanks to the Goodman Theatre he gets a chance to stage it now in Chicago. Academy Award-nominee Diane Lane (UnfaithfuL) and Finn Wittrock both star in this disturbing taLe of a faded Hollywood starlet who has been dragged by a gigolo back to his dangerous Southern hometown. 312-443-3800 or www.goodmantheatre.org
My First Time, Broken Nose Theatre at Greenhouse Theater Center, now to Oct. 26. This hit off-Broadway show is back, detailing stories about people's first-time sexual experiences and also getting the audience into the action by incorporating a pre-show poLL. 773-404-7336 or www.greenhousetheater.org
Corpus Christi, Center on Halsted, Sept. 2930. This special event, co-sponsored by Michael Leppen, features a performance by 108 Productions of the 1998 Terrence McNaLLy pLay that reteLLs the story of Jesus if he was Living as a gay man in 1950s Texas. It's also paired with a film documentary caLLed Corpus Christi-PLaying With Redemption, which foLLows the theater troupe, McNaLLy and audiences around the worLd by capturing voices of support and protest over "that gay Jesus pLay." Tickets are available for the play and film separately or together, www. corpuschristi-themovie.com
Someone Who'll Watch Over Me, Oak Park Festival Theatre at Madison Street Studio Theatre, Oct. 4-Nov. 11. Irish playwright Frank McGuiness explores how three men - an American, an Irishman and an Englishman - cope with being held hostage in this accLaimed play from the 1990s. 708-445-4440 or www.oakparkf estival. com
Doubt, American Theater Company, Sept. 27Nov. 4. John Patrick ShanLey's Pulitzer Prizewinning drama focuses on a stern Catholic school principal who takes matters into her own hands when she suspects the new and popular parish priest has been having improper contact with a male student. Doubt plays alongside John Peilmeier's drama Agnes of God under American Theater Company's billing of The Catholic Repertory. 773-409-4125 or www.atcweb.org
Hot 'n' Throbbing, Interrobang Theatre Project at Raven Theatre, Sept. 22-0ct. 21. Pulitzer Prize-winning lesbian playwright Paula Vogel gets a revival of her adults-only comic drama dealing with domestic abuse. The play follows a suburban mother who writes feminist erotica but is distracted by her nicotine cravings, her hormonal teenage children and the arrival of her estranged and abusive husband, www.interrobangtheatreproject.org
Avenue Q, NightBLue Performing Arts Company at Stage 773, now to Oct. 14. The Tony Award-winning 2003 Broadway musical that Lovingly spoofs Sesame Street returns in a Locally produced production. So meet the people and puppets (Like Rod, the closeted gay RepubLican) on this speciaL rundown New York street and don't be surprised if the catchy tunes make you want to sing along. 773-327-5252 or www. nightbLuetheater.com
Burn This, Shattered Globe Theatre at Theater Wit, Oct. 18-Nov. 18. The death of a successful gay dancer throws the Lives of two friends into disarray in this classic 1980s drama by the Late gay playwright Lanford Wilson. 773-975-8150 or www.sgtheatre.org
Camp attractions
Sometimes you've got to be comicaLLy tragic for comic's sake. So catch these shows that parody pop cuLture with a decidedLy queer eye.
Année Pocalypse!, Hubris Productions at Mary's Attic, now to Nov. 10. What do you get when you bLend a beLoved Broadway musical with zombies in a post-apocaLyptic worLd? Why, ifs a revivaL of this genre-blending musical spoof that focuses on "LittLe Whorin' Année" trying to survive in a frightening, non-politically correct worLd. www.hubrisproductions.com
Xanadu, Drury Lane Theatre, Oakbrook Terrace, now to Oct. 28. Out playwright Douglas Carter Beane (The LittLe Dog Laughed, Lysistrata Jones) junked the weird screenplay from this crítica LLy drubbed 1980 film musicaL and turned it into a sparkly and Lovingly spoofed Broadway success. So see what happens when an ancient Greek muse heLps a hunky CaLifornia guy reaLize his dream of building a roLLer disco. 630-5300111 or www.drurylaneoakbrook.com
Scarne the Musical, HeLL in a Handbag Productions at Mary's Attic, Sept. 28-0ct. 31. This musicaL spoof of the iconic 1970s Stephen King novel and movie Carrie gets another bLoody revivaL. And this revengeful teLekinetic teenager is specially timed to the month of Halloween celebrations. 800-838-3006 or www.handbagproductions.org
Sexy Baby, HeLL in a Handbag Productions at Theater Wit, now through Oct. 27. This summer musicaL spoof of child beauty pageants featuring Loads of drag queens has extended and moved to a new Location. Also, don't miss the inclusion of Honey "Boo Boo" West to the cast. 773-9758150 or www.handbagproductions.org
Steamwerkz the Musical, Annoyance Theater, now extended to Dec. 28. Who knew that Lewis CarroLL's Alice's Adventures in Wonderland couLd be the template for a musicaL about a notorious Chicago gay bathhouse? ObviousLy the cast and crew of this hit summer musicaL did, since practicaLLy aLL performances have been seLLing out. 773-561-4665 or www.annoyanceproductions. com
Diva society
Whether opera or Motown is your thing, be sure not to miss these shows featuring plenty of souLful divas scaLing the vocaL heights.
Dreamgirls, Marriott Theatre, Lincolnshire, now to Oct. 28. This hit 1981 musicaL about the backstage drama surrounding an African-American girl group in the 1960s and 1970s is back in a critica LLy acclaimed production directed and choreographed by Marc Robin. If you only know the show from the 2006 movie, then you haven't reaLLy experienced Dreamgirls in its original form. 847-634-0200 or www.marriotttheatre. com
One Name Only (Featuring the Music of Aretha, Gladys, Patti, Tina and Chaka), Black Ensemble Theater, Previews begin Sept. 28. The music ceLebrating one-name Ladies of SouL is given a reality TV show twist in Rueben EchoLes' new show where the audience can vote for their favorites with five different outcomes. 773-7694451 or www.blackensembLetheater.org
Homotown 3 Last Dance: A Tribute to Etta, Whitney and Donna, About Face Theatre at Sidetrack, 6 p.m. doors open, 7 p.m. show Sept. 24. This benefit to aid About Face Youth Theatre features performers paying homage to divas we've Lost this year Like Etta James, Whitney Houston and Donna Summer, www.aboutfacetheatre.com
Simply Sensational 2 with Kim Kuzma and With A Twist, Michael A. Leppen and Pride FiLms and PLays at Stage 773, Oct. 9. Singer Kim Kuzma and the vocaL trio With A Twist are joined by the ensembles of shows Like Bailiwick Chicago's BLoody BLoody Andrew Jackson, Theo Ubique's Smokey Joe's Café and more for this special benefit. www.pridefiLmsandplays.com
Elektra, Lyric Opera of Chicago, Oct. 6-30. American soprano Christine Goerke makes her Lyric debut in the title roLe of Richard Strauss and Hugo von HofmannsthaL's towering interpretation of a Greek tragedy. This new production is heLmed by gay Scottish director Sir David McVicar and also features Lesbian mezzo-soprano JiLL Grove in the roLe of CLytemnestra. 312-3322244 ext. 5600 or www.Lyricopera.org
The Magic Flute, Chicago Opera Theater at Harris Theater for Music and Dance, now to Sept. 23. Most everyone knows the stratospheric arias of The Queen of the Night, but they probably haven't heard them sung in English as in Chicago Opera Theater's new production. There are only three more chances to catch this masterpiece by Mozart. 312-704-8414 or www.chicagooperatheater.org
A nod to LG BT allies
Some peopLe have been adding an "A" to the end of the LGBT acronym so as not to exclude our straight allies. So don't discount these shows, which are about influential late writers who were strong supporters of the LGBT community.
A Class Act, Porch Light Music Theatre at Theater Wit, now to Oct. 7. The neurotic New York songwriter Edward KLeban may have been straight, but he coLLaborated on the influentiaL Broadway smash hit A Chorus Line which significantly featured gay characters. Find out about the Little-known songs of KLeban via this biomusical co-created by Lonny Price and Linda KLine - or, better yet, attend the one-day-onLy cabaret caLLed An Unordinary Sunday Sept. 23 featuring Price as the host and the music of Stephen Sondheim. 773-975-8150 or www.porchLightmusictheatre.org
The Lady With All the Answers, Buffalo Theatre EnsembLe at CoLLege of DuPage's BuiLding-K Theater, GLen ELLyn, now to Sept. 23. The Late Ann Landers was an early supporter of gay peopLe, and David Rambo's one-woman play about the influential syndicated newspaper advice columnist is a reminder of that fact. 630-942-4000 or www.home.cod.edu/atthemac

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Theater; Theater companies; Theater criticism

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: LGBT fall preview

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 48

Pages: 17,27

Number of pages: 2

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Sep 19, 2012

Section: GOINGS-ON

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1082047809

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lgbt-fall-preview/docview/1082047809/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Sep 19, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Skin Tight

Author: Barnidge, Mary Shen

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/skin-tight/docview/1039645933/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: It takes 60 minutes for this love song to reach its conclusion - an hour of raw emotional disclosure riveting our attention in an auditorium so intimate that opening-night playgoers were visibly holding their breaths during the delicate adagio involving the sharpened blade of a paring-knife.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=46&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=14&amp;date=2012-09-05&amp;atitle=Skin+Tight&amp;au=Barnidge%2C+Mary+Shen&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=46&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=14&amp;date=2012-09-05&amp;atitle=Skin+Tight&amp;au=Barnidge%2C+Mary+Shen&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   THEATER REVIEW
Skin Tight
Playwright: Gary Henderson
At: Cor Theatre at Red Orchid, 1531 N.Wells St.
Tickets: 1-866-811-4111; www.cortheatre.org; $15
Runs through: Sept. 25
The stage is furnished with a barnyard trough pushed up against the back wall, flanked by two galvanized steel buckets. The entire floor is covered by gymnasium mats. This is because our introduction to lovers Tom and Elizabeth is the sight of them charging full-tilt at one another from opposite sides of the playing space to clash in mortal combat - shoves, grapples, upsets, takedowns, kicks, punches, fish-hooks and hair pulls - rolling and scrambling over the ground in primal animalistic fury
Once upon a time, courting couples seeking wholesome exercise usually found it in ballroom dancing. However, in 2012, they are just as likely to forge compatibility through pursuit of more athletic activities - even such martial arts as boxing or wrestling. This knowledge only slightly decreases our shock at this display of domestic violence. The exchange of what looks to be brutal blows, however, is executed with a palpable undercurrent of mutual affection, mitigating the initial repellence of this preamble to the participants uttering a word.
U.S. audiences may not be familiar with the poem by Denis Glover upon which fellow New Zealander Gary Henderson bases his play, but attentive listeners will quickly discern the subtext served by Scott Cummins and Julia Neary's balletic mano a mano: the now-elderly Elizabeth is dying, you see, and making her last confessions to her likewise aged husband, Tom. The episodes of corporal contention - even those drawing blood - reflect the intensity of their passion, recalled in all its fiery splendor as they review the tumultuous events of their lives together, invoking its simmering warmth when the moment comes to face their final adversary together.
It takes 60 minutes for this love song to reach its conclusion - an hour of raw emotional disclosure riveting our attention in an auditorium so intimate that opening-night playgoers were visibly holding their breaths during the delicate adagio involving the sharpened blade of a paring-knife. Tony Bozzuto's and Tosha Fowler's performances deliver an infectious synergy, while Lindsay Jones' sound design maintains the environmental synchronicity associated with romanticism, elevating the mood to operatic levels despite the starkly minimal scenic ambience. Victoria Delorio's direction seamlessly integrates the flow of physical spectacle and verbal revelation, allowing us nary a pause in our anticipation of the ending we know is inevitable. When it arrives, the catharsis can be felt throughout the whole room.

Subject: Theater

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Henderson, Gary

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Skin Tight

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 46

Pages: 14

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Sep 5, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Theater Review

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1039645933

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/skin-tight/docview/1039645933/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Sep 5, 2012

Last updated: 2023-08-28

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

LGBTs question Catholic Charities deal with city for homeless outreach

Author: Sosin, Kate

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lgbts-question-catholic-charities-deal-with-city/docview/1039134867/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "It just raises a Lot of red flags in my mind," said Joe Murray, executive director of Rainbow Sash Movement, an LGBT Catholic organization. "CathoLic Charities, one, does not recognize us [LGBT peopLe] and two, beLieves we are moraLLy disordered."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=45&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2012-08-29&amp;atitle=LGBTs+question+Catholic+Charities+deal+with+city+for+homeless+outreach&amp;au=Sosin%2C+Kate&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=45&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2012-08-29&amp;atitle=LGBTs+question+Catholic+Charities+deal+with+city+for+homeless+outreach&amp;au=Sosin%2C+Kate&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   The city is outsourcing some of its homeless services to Chicago Catholic Charities, a move raising eyebrows among some LGBT people who see the organization as anti-gay.
Mayor Emanuel announced the move, intended to cut down on youth homelessness, in an Aug. 23 press conference.
"If you can cut somebody off at a younger age who's homeless, get them the jobs and get them the education, they won't be an adult statistic," Emanuel said.
According to the mayor, the deal will save the city $1.7 million, to be funneled back into homeless services. The result, he said, will be a 40-percent increase in the number of shelter beds.
Catholic Charities will take over the city's program that offers Late-night rides to homeless shelters, operating 12 vehicles and employing 50 workers.
But many LGBT people questioned the move, as Catholic Charities in Illinois and the Archdiocese of Chicago have taken high-profile stances against LGBT rights in recent years.
"It just raises a Lot of red flags in my mind," said Joe Murray, executive director of Rainbow Sash Movement, an LGBT Catholic organization. "CathoLic Charities, one, does not recognize us [LGBT peopLe] and two, beLieves we are moraLLy disordered."
Chicago Catholic Charities is an arm of the Archdiocese of Chicago, headed by Cardinal Francis George, who sparked outrage Last winter when he compared the Pride Parade to a Ku KLux KLan gathering.
Responding to a Lakeview church's request to aLter the Pride Parade pLans to Let parishioners attend Sunday mass, the Cardinal repeatedLy stated that parade was at risk of turning into a KKK gathering.
"You don't want the gay-Liberation movement to morph into something Like the Ku KLux KLan, demonstrating in the streets against CathoLicism," he toLd Fox News Chicago.
George Later apologized for the remarks.
However, ILLinois CathoLic Charities have also come under fire in recent years for other antigay stances. Last year, a group of ILLinois CathoLic Charities refused to pLace foster children in same-sex households after civiL unions went into effect. The state pulLed the charities' contract over the refusaL, and the charities unsuccessfully sued to keep the contract while turning away LGBT parents.
Chicago CathoLic Charities was not a party in the suit, but George oversees aLL of the state's six dioceses.
"CathoLic Charities are the same in every diocese no matter where you're at," explained Chris Pett, president of LGBT CathoLic organization Dignity/Chicago. "Now the city will Layoff workers and shift the service to an organization that is known to be anti-gay."
Ed FLavin, a spokesperson for Chicago CathoLic Charities confirmed that the organization's stance on LGBT parents is the same as the other charities, but he said there was no connection between the foster care dispute and homeless services.
"We've never discriminated against anyone, period," FLavin said.
FLavin noted that he personaLLy "is a major advocate of assisting that community."
According to Matt Smith, a spokesperson for Chicago Department of FamiLy and Support Services (DFSS), aLL agencies contracting with DFSS are contractuaLLy required to foLLow federaL, state and Local anti-discrimination Laws and policies.
In addition, Smith said, CathoLic Charities provided the city with its own anti-discrimination policy.
"CathoLic Charities maintains a policy of non-discrimination on the basis of race, coLor, national origin, disability, marital status, age, gender incLuding pregnancy, sexuaL orientation, status as a Vietnam -era or special disabled veteran or any other basis prohibited by federaL, state, or Local Laws in aLL matters relating to employment with the Agency, incLuding hiring, training, promotion, demotion, transfer, recruitment, heLp wanted advertising, Layoff, termination, compensation, and other terms and conditions of employment," the statement reads.
Finally, the newly released "PLan to End HomeLess, 2.0" includes recommendations on better serving LGBT peopLe, said Smith.
That inclusion comes in the form of a mention of LGBTQ people among "speciaL populations" that also include families, youth, victims of domestic violence, seniors, peopLe who have been convicted of a crime, persons with a disability, peopLe who are chronically homeless, peopLe with HIV/AIDS, undocumented people and peopLe with limited EngLish proficiency.
One openLy gay person who supports the deaL is Jim LoBianco, who headed up homeless services under Mayor DaLey and currentLy serves as executive director of Streetwise.
LoBianco contends that because "human service worker" is one of the Lowest titles in Chicago government, homeLess services had become a dumping ground for demoted empLoyees who were trained in other careers.
"They never wanted to work with the homeLess," he said, adding he felt the way some workers treated clients was unacceptabLe.
LoBianco pointed out that CathoLic Charities has received city contracts for decades. During his time heading homeLess services, he said, LGBT-specific complaints were filed with the city, but CathoLic Charities never received a complaint.
"There are not a lot of agencies committed to doing this work, and of those, CathoLic Charities is the best," LoBianco said.
OpenLy gay Aid. James Cappleman expressed similar feelings.
CappLeman is a Longtime member of Dignity/ Chicago and a former sodai worker. Overall, he said, he was not concerned about the deal. He never witnessed homophobia from CathoLic Charities when he was doing social work.
Asked if he worried about the image of the city contracting with CathoLic Charities, he said, "I'm mostly focused on making sure that peopLe are who experience homelessness are getting the best possibLe care."
- Contributing reporter. Bill Healy

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Homeless people; Mayors; Social services; Organizations

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Emanuel, Rahm

Company / organization: Name: Catholic Charities USA; NAICS: 813211

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: LGBTs question Catholic Charities deal with city for homeless outreach

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 45

Pages: 6

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Aug 29, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1039134867

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lgbts-question-catholic-charities-deal-with-city/docview/1039134867/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Aug 29, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

GOP reps call for bipartisan support of anti-violence act

Author: Royce, Jamie Anne

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gop-reps-call-bipartisan-support-anti-violence/docview/1037694410/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "We want to serve everyone who enters the door, thafs why we are calling for bipartisan support of [an inclusive] VAWA," said [Judy Biggert]. "The Law must clarify policies for victims who are LGBT ... There is simply no excuse to allow VAWA to fall to election year gridlock."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=42&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=9&amp;date=2012-08-08&amp;atitle=GOP+reps+call+for+bipartisan+support+of+anti-violence+act&amp;au=Royce%2C+Jamie+Anne&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=42&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=9&amp;date=2012-08-08&amp;atitle=GOP+reps+call+for+bipartisan+support+of+anti-violence+act&amp;au=Royce%2C+Jamie+Anne&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Republican U.S. Reps. Judy Biggert and Robert DoLd met with community Leaders, advocates and social-service providers July 31 to call for bipartisan support of an LGBT-incLusive reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA).
In May, the House of Representatives passed a version of the VAWA reauthorization bill that cut protections and programs for same-sex couples, college campuses, indigenous tribes and undocumented immigrants. The Senate previously approved those protections in April.
"We want to serve everyone who enters the door, thafs why we are calling for bipartisan support of [an inclusive] VAWA," said Biggert. "The Law must clarify policies for victims who are LGBT ... There is simply no excuse to allow VAWA to fall to election year gridlock."
The LGBT-incLusive VAWA would provide funding for programs serving LGBT people experiencing domestic violence, and prohibit discrimination in VAWA funding based on gender.
VAWA - enacted in 1994 to provide grant money for police departments and agencies to aid victims and prosecute domestic violence offenders - has received bipartisan support every time it has needed reauthorization. But this go around, the fight is falling mostly along party lines, with many GOP Congress members objecting to LGBT and undocumented immigrant protections.
"ALL victims deserve justice," said Vickie Smith, CEO/executive director of the ILLinois CoaLition Against Domestic VioLence. "I urge Congress to support the end of domestic vioLence, sexuaL assault and staLking in aLL corners of our country."
Forty-four percent of LGBT and HIV-positive survivors of intimate partner vioLence were turned away from shelters, and 55 percent of LGBT survivors who went to police were denied protection orders, according to NationaL CoaLition of Anti-VioLence Programs reports.
"An inclusive VAWA would change aLL of this and it wouLd send a dear signaLto our courts, to our state governments, to our social service providers that we are here for aLL peopLe regardless of their sexuaL orientation or gender identity," said Brian Richardson, director of public affairs for the Center on HaLsted.
The Center on HaLsted provides support to approximately 200 survivors of domestic and sexuaL vioLence in Chicago, according to Richardson.
"LGBT peopLe face the same rates of domestic and sexuaL vioLence as our straight counterparts," said Richardson. "UnfortunateLy, we do not have the same access to sheLters, to social service providers, to programs that our straight counterparts do."
House Speaker John Boehner appointed eight Republican Congress members to an unformed conference committee JuLy 30, but the Senate has yet to name committee members. Once both committees have been seLected, they wiLL workshop a bipartisan version of the biLL.
Biggert is confident an agreement can be reached. "Any claims that the bills are too far apart are simply not true," she said.
Until then, VAWA funding and guideLines will continue under the Latest reauthorization from 2005.
"I, for one, believe that the more incLusive bill is the right path," said DoLd. "Frankly this is about protecting individuals aLL across the country, and we should pass this biLL and pass it quickly."
President Barack Obama has threatened to veto an uninclusive version of VAWA.
'This is not about campaigns or the next election - for our community, this is Life and death," said Richardson. "It is time to stop politicking and start saving Lives."

Subject: Legislators; Domestic violence; Gays & lesbians; Social justice; Federal legislation

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Biggert, Judy; Dold, Robert

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: GOP reps call for bipartisan support of anti-violence act

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 42

Pages: 9

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Aug 8, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1037694410

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gop-reps-call-bipartisan-support-anti-violence/docview/1037694410/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Aug 8, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Letters to the editor

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/letters-editor/docview/1030198401/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Domestic violence is a widespread probLem. Statistics show that domestic vioLence occurs regardless of gender identity and sexuaL orientation, with studies suggesting that LGBTQ peopLe may even be at a higher risk for abuse compared to the one in four heterosexual· women who are abused by partners during their Lives.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=38&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2012-07-11&amp;atitle=Letters+to+the+editor&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=38&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2012-07-11&amp;atitle=Letters+to+the+editor&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Violence and gay mate relationships
Dear Editor:
As members of the Anti-VioLence Project at Center on HaLsted, we find ourseLves moved to respond to the remarks of Esera TuaoLo printed in the July 4 issue of Windy City Times in an interview titLed "Esera TuaoLo: Coming back from darkness."
TuaoLo discusses an incident of physicaL violence that took place with his intimate partner: "I got into an argument/fight with my boyfriend at the time. Things escalated and we got into a fight for personaL reasons." TuaoLo then provides his opinion that domestic-violence response systems are designed "to protect women or weaker people from an abusive boyfriend, husband, or stronger person who constantLy beats them up, but in this case, it was two men who got into a fight."
We are disturbed by TuaoLo's comments and even more disturbed that they are widely accepted. There are many probLems with TuaoLo's statements, which we would Like to parse in order to provide education and work to promote healing for individuals and communities struggling around domestic/intimate partner violence.
For one, TuaoLo cannot get away with thinking that his is not a case of intimate partner violence [IPV] (also caLLed domestic violence [DV]), aLthough we may not know about the existence of a pattern. According to the NationaL Coalition of Anti-VioLence Programs, domestic vioLence is defined as a pattern of behaviors utilized by one partner (often LabeLed the "abuser" or "batterer") to exert and maintain controL over their partner(s) (the survivor(s) or victim(s)).
Domestic violence is a widespread probLem. Statistics show that domestic vioLence occurs regardless of gender identity and sexuaL orientation, with studies suggesting that LGBTQ peopLe may even be at a higher risk for abuse compared to the one in four heterosexual· women who are abused by partners during their Lives. TuaoLo attempts to normalize, condone and/or excuse the vioLence he perpetrated by rhetoricaLLy separating his actions aLong seLf-perceived gender Lines while diminishing the dynamics of an intimate partnership: "women or weaker peopLe" are the abused and the "boyfriend, husband, or stronger person" does the beating, and Let's forget the part about "boyfriend". ..now it's just "two men" who "got into a fight." And to top it off, there is the perception that there are no services for him and/or his boyfriend to end violence in their relationship: "men," it would seem, don't need to be "protected]."
We know from our work, from our Lives and from our colleagues around the nation engaged in similar anti-violence efforts both against and within the LGBTQ community, that aLL peopLe regardless of gender identity and/or expression, sexuaL orientation, body-size, financial privilege, race, ethnicity, age, etc. may have problems with power and controL dynamics in an intimate partnership, as a perpetrator and as a survivor. If we have Learned anything as a community, Let it be to work against stereotypes that siLence those who are marginaLized and chaLLenge systems of oppression.
VioLence is not reducible to stereotypes, neither are the vieti m /survivors and perpetrators. SeLf-identified and cuLturaLLy perceived "twinks" can beat up, staLk, rape and murder their seLfidentified and cuLturaLLy perceived "big muscLe daddy" boyfriends. Self-identified and cuLturaLLy perceived "girLy-girl femme Lesbians" can do the same to their partners, even if their partners identify as butch/masculine/maLe. Likewise, if two partners who seem to be of similar physicaL ability chose to use violence against each other, that vioLence does not magicalLy canceL itself out. It is not excusabLe. It is not "male." And it shouLd not be eroticized or fetishized by others.
UnfortunateLy for members of the LGBTQ community, there are far fewer resources and more barriers to services (both rea L and perceived). There may be greater fear of trusting Law enforcement, there are no DV sheLter beds for maLes in Chicago, and there are fewer DV/IPV support services that work with the LGBTQ community. It takes a community to advance heaLing around the issues presented in TuaoLo's interview. CaLL out vioLence where you see violence; advocate for funding to support anti-vioLence programs such as the one at Center on HaLsted; and reach out if you are struggling around power and controL dynamics in your relationship. CaLL the Center on HaLsted Anti-Violence Project at 773-8712273 (CARE) to attend to safety needs and get linked to resources. Remember, the estimates are one in four. You are not alone and there is he Lp.
Center on Halsted Anti-Violence Project (AVP)
Anne Huffman, AVP Manager
John Garver, AVP Therapist & Training Delivery Manager
Lisa dimore, Director of Education & Victim Advocacy

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Letters to the editor

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 38

Pages: 16

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Jul 11, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Letter

ProQuest document ID: 1030198401

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/letters-editor/docview/1030198401/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jul 11, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

LGBT leaders, activists talk needs-assessment study

Author: Sosin, Kate

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lgbt-leaders-activists-talk-needs-assessment/docview/1027147462/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Among other things, the assessment showed that Chicago's LGBT population is spread across the city, that a Larger number of LGBT Chicagoans are single and that both youth and seniors feeL age discrimination within the LGBT community.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=37&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2012-07-04&amp;atitle=LGBT+leaders%2C+activists+talk+needs-assessment+study&amp;au=Sosin%2C+Kate&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=37&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2012-07-04&amp;atitle=LGBT+leaders%2C+activists+talk+needs-assessment+study&amp;au=Sosin%2C+Kate&amp;id=doi:

Full text: A presentation of the newly reLeased LGBT Community Needs Assessment study drew LGBT community Leaders from around the city to Howard Brown Health Center June 27.
The study, which was conducted by the Morten Group and paid for through the LGBT Community Fund of the Chicago Community Trust, compiled information from approximateLy 2,000 LGBT Chicagoans.
After months of anticipation from Local groups, the resuLts the study have been reLeased to the community. According to researchers, the study offers a snapshot of LGBT Chicago not seen in nearly a decade.
Among the top issues facing LGBT Chicagoans are access to healthcare, unemployment and underempLoyment, access to government rights and services, discrimination and safety. (Windy City Times previously reported on the resuLts of the study in-depth at www.windycitymediagroup. com/Lgbt/Looking-at-the-Needs-Assessment-data-results-/38395.htmL.)
The study combines information obtained through surveys, data cards, focus groups and interviews.
Community Leaders discussed the study resuLts with Mary Morten, president of the Morten Group, Keisha Farmer-Moore, the principal investigator on the study and Jim ALexander, co-chair of the LGBT Community Fund.
Among other things, the assessment showed that Chicago's LGBT population is spread across the city, that a Larger number of LGBT Chicagoans are single and that both youth and seniors feeL age discrimination within the LGBT community.
"In Chicago, it feels there is an age restriction to being gay," said one respondent, according to Farmer-Moore.
The study also concluded that the majority of LGBT peopLe rank access to heaLthcare as a major concern, a fact that was true across raciaL categories.
Farmer-Moore and Morten encouraged attendees to think about additional ways to anaLyze the data and said that future assessments may be done in order to fiLL gaps in the first. Community leaders suggested that a Lack of youth participation under age 18 as weLL as the absence of questions related to disability and domestic vioLence might be shortcomings in the study.
The assessment resuLts wiLL be used to determine one milLion do Liars in funding initiatives from the LGBT Community Fund. Advocates are currently raising those funds. According to ALexander, approximateLy $250,000 has aLready been raised.
The LGBT Community Needs Assessment can be accessed at www.MortenGroup.com.

Subject: Presentations; Gays & lesbians; Needs; Social research

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: LGBT leaders, activists talk needs-assessment study

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 37

Pages: 8

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Jul 4, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1027147462

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lgbt-leaders-activists-talk-needs-assessment/docview/1027147462/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jul 4, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Esera Tuaolo: Coming back from darkness

Author: Forman, Ross

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/esera-tuaolo-coming-back-darkness/docview/1027147453/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: On the NFL: "When I played, times were different [as his nine-year career began with the 1991 NFL draft]. Back then, I never thought of coming out, [or] even doing anything that would jeopardize my position. I never, ever felt safe to come out. Just imagine what the bounty would have been on 'the gay guy.' I beLieve the NFL stilL thinks, or wants to beLieve, that there are no gay NFL players in the League or retired.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=37&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2012-07-04&amp;atitle=Esera+Tuaolo%3A+Coming+back+from+darkness&amp;au=Forman%2C+Ross&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=37&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2012-07-04&amp;atitle=Esera+Tuaolo%3A+Coming+back+from+darkness&amp;au=Forman%2C+Ross&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Ultimately, everything was dropped and dismissed - Esera Tuaolo was found not guilty.
However, the impact of just the domestic-violence charge against the openly gay former National Football League (NFL) player has had an impact as Large as Tuaolo's 6'4", 290-Lb. frame, turning the past two years into "an absolute nightmare," he said recentLy in an exclusive interview.
Two summers ago, Tuaolo was arrested in Minnesota, charged with three misdemeanors and given a domestic abuse-related no-contact order with the victim. Tuaolo was released on $2,000 bail after his arrest.
"What happened was that I got into an argument/fight with my boyfriend at the time," Tuaolo said. "Things escalated and we got into a fight for personal reasons."
Tuaolo's boyfriend at the time did not press charges, nor did his parents. It was, instead, his ex-boyfriend's sister who called the police. Tuaolo said he would have called the police himself and holds nothing against her.
The police came to his ex-boyfriend's house and Learned the case involved a celebrity.
"At that time, I was already home, so they called me to come in for questioning. When I got there I was arrested and charged with domestic abuse and a non-contact order was issued. I was absolutely surprised," Tuaolo said. "I understand the judicial system and how they need to protect women or weaker people from an abusive boyfriend, husband or stronger person [who] constantly beats them up, but, in this case, it was two men [who] got into a fight. My ex did not press charges, nor did he want to press charges. Even his parents got involved, trying to talk to the prosecutor to drop the case, even going so far as talking to the mayor of the county to have [the charges] dropped.
"Now if I was just a normal gay man [who] got into a fight with his Lover, do you think they would have wasted government money to take this to trial for a year? I don't believe so. The case was dragged on for an entire year. It was something that was taken way out of context, maybe because I [am] Esera Tuaolo, the gay exNFL player; I really don't know.
"All my life I have helped people whenever I can. For the Last 10 years, I have dedicated my Life to heLping the GLBT community and youth. I have dedicated my Life defending human rights and equality. When I was charged with domestic abuse, peopLe turned their backs on me, even when I toLd them it was a big misunderstanding and with my ex [also] explaining to them the situation."
TuaoLo said peopLe and organizations blackballed him, and that numerous speaking engagements were cancelLed because of the charge.
TuaoLo estimated he Lost $60,000 or more in the first year after the charge, and he's stilL impacted when schools or organization contact him or his agent to book a speaking services. The domestic charge is stilL an obstacle.
"It's been a slow recovery, but hopefully it wiLL get better," TuaoLo said. "As I said, I would spend every day of my Life talking about homophobia and bullying if I couLd. Now I understand their reasons for canceLing [appearances], but it was hard and I took Large financial and reputation hit that is still impacting me and my family. I want to teLL everyone reading this that [the charge] was dismissed and that I was cLeared of everything."
He said things now are "good" with the ex. "We are both in a better pLace now," TuaoLo said.
TuaoLo, 43, Lives in Minnetonka, a suburb of Minneapolis. His children, MitcheLL and MicheLe, are each 11, heading into sixth grade in the faLL, and reguLarLy pLay basketbaLl - and each of the siblings' teams made it to the playoffs last season.
The kids always put a smile on Tuaolo's face, even in these rough times.
"I have to confess, these are not easy times for me," TuaoLo said. "There is a Lot going on in my Life right now. A few weeks ago, I would have been one of the most pessimistic guys around; there were times when I didn't see the Light at the end of the tunnel, and what is worst, I couLdn't even imagine how this Light would look."
TuaoLo had hit rock bottom.
"That was probabLy the most critical period in my Life so far," TuaoLo said. "I woke up one morning and realized I was financially broke; my Life savings were taken away by someone I trusted; I was emotionally drained; my boyfriend and I broke up; I was physically exhausted and had gained a Lot of weight."
TuaoLo battled deep depression.
"I thought of taking the easy way out," he said. "But Luckily for me, I have amazing friends [who] are heLping me in these tough times. I probabLy owe them my Life. I am taking it one day at a time and feel things are improving thanks to their heLp and my determination to get back on track. I've been there before, [having grown] poor in a banana farm in Hawaii and I know what I need to do to get over this hump. What is more important, I know I can do it. So, yes, I am one of those typicaL footbaLL player horror stories, but I reaLLy hope this one has a happy ending. I am working on it.
Tve had it all; I've lost it all, but I know I can get back on track. In the last few years since coming out [in 2002], I have been helping peopLe; I Love that and wiLL continue doing it as it is one of my passions in Life, together with my kids, but I know now that I have to help myself first."
TuaoLo added, "What is the hardest thing about running a race? I thought I knew the answer but, actually, I didn't. The hardest part is usually taking the first step. I am proud to say that I took that first step by starting to work out - and have since Lost 30 pounds - and have been reaching out to friends and opening up about my situation.
"After I told the first person, I dropped to my knees and prayed; I thanked God for giving me the strength to do it. I don't want to be ashamed anymore; I don't want to pretend, and I want to be myself again, the happy Mr. ALoha that most people know ... but this time I want my smiLe to be sincere. Sometimes LateLy I feLt that the smiLe I was projecting was similar to the one I had when I was in the closet when playing for nine years [on] five different teams in the NFL. I smiled even when it hurt so much inside. But not anymore. It feels better to get it alL out now so that I can start the healing process. Ifs a fresh start to a new day and I'm excited."
TuaoLo has pushed the reset button on Life.
"I know there wiLL be peopLe thinking that I deserved [this fate], while others wiLL be shocked. Some wiLL be secretLy happy and others wiLL reaLLy care," TuaoLo said. "I know I can do this; I have my Life, my health, my voice and especially my kids. I've been to the top and I know how to get there, but it wiLL take hard work and dedication."
TuaoLo's singing career has been staLLed, he said, although he performed June 24 at a major Minneapolis block party in conjunction with its Pride weekend, opening for Mya and Crystal Waters. He also has been writing songs of late for a one-man show about his life.
TuaoLo's run through the pubLic-speaking circle includes stops for high schooL and college students, and for corporations. And he never has enough of either gigs.
For the students, TuaoLo speaks against homophobia in sports and bullying. "I am passionate about what I do, but especiaLLy to this group," he said. "I Love watching the reaction on the faces of the audience when I speak, as weLL as knowing that my speech impacted many peopLe by the emails I get afterwards. It has been extremely rewarding."
To the business worLd, TuaoLo stresses the importance of accepting diversity, creating safe zones for employees, and the skills that he had to develop to be successfuL as a footbaLL player.
"My speaking career is going okay, but if I could spend every day of the year speaking against homophobia in sports and anti-buLLying, I wouLd certainly do it," said TuaoLo, represented by New York-based Greater TaLent Network. "I get to traveL around the country [for speeches] to educate peopLe on issues of homophobia and bullying, trying to make a difference in today's society, to try and create a better world for our younger generation and for my children.
"The main obstacle I've found to be hired by more schools is the domestic abuse charge, even though I was found innocent and alL charges were dropped."
Off the playing field
TuaoLo tagged President Obama "brave and courageous" for his support of gay marriage.
"He has taken the first step to include all Americans under eyes of God as being equal," TuaoLo said. "Like Abraham Lincoln abolishing slavery, Martin Luther King, Jr., with [the] civilrights movements and the women's rights movements, if s a good thing and I Love him for it."
TuaoLo is very active in Minnesota, supporting same-sex marriage or at Least civiL unions - even just promoting the subjects.
He also is working on a "HATE IN ANY FORM IS WRONG" video /campaign that hopefulLy wilL include some professionaL athletes and ceLebrities, he said. He asks anyone that beLieves in this phrase, to stand up for whafs right and make a pLedge. Create a video and post it on YouTube with the foLlowing pLedge: "I beLieve that hate in any form is wrong, and as a human being I wiLL stand up for what is right."
TuaoLo sang the NationaL Anthem at a Los Angeles Clippers basketball game Last season for Equality Night and to support the N0H8 campaign. "I was going to be a keynote speaker and perform at the EquaLity Maryland gaLa, but because of the [past] domestic abuse incident, they decided not to [have me at the event]."
Ifs a sad scenario for TuaoLo, who has heard the same song multipLe times over the past two years, he said.
"Because of the domestic abuse incident, a Lot of people have canceLLed engagements I had booked, or derided not to estabLish contact with me," he said. "I totally understand their stance on the issue because we do not want to give our opponent a reason or information that wiLL hurt our campaign. That's why it is important for me to do this story - to Let everyone know that the charges were dropped and that I was found innocent. I want to do alL I can do, but ifs hard when every time you Google my name, [the domestic charge] pops up."
Bullying
TuaoLo's children are big for their age, which has led him to emphasize the negativity of bullying.
"It breaks my heart reading about another child/student committing suicide because of bullying," he said. "This could be avoided or prevented if peopLe wouLd just speak up, step up, and make a difference. I'm tired of reading how many times these kids reached out for heLp and nothing was done.
Tm always making sure [my kids] know that buLlying is wrong. I needed to have that talk with them, so they know how to deal with the situation and that they shouLd treat other kids Like how they would want to be treated."
TuaoLo, mostly because of his size, said he was never buLLied at schooL - but was buLLied at home.
"I always stuck up for the weaker kid because it was the right thing to do," TuaoLo said. "I was raised by my mother to respect peo pie and treat everyone Like a human being. Mom always toLd me, 'If you want to be great in God's kingdom, you need to be a servant.'"
Coming out
TuaoLo said he had dreams about coming out while stilL active in the NFL, but there was no chance those dreams wouLd become reaLity.
"The environment was not right," he said. "I had to pLay to provide for my famiLy and kids, and coming out wouLd have probabLy meant getting or been purposeLy injured by one of my teammates, been ostracized in the Locker room and in practice; I couldn't risk it.
"One of my happiest moments in my Life, after having my kids, was taking my mom to the malL and asking her to choose whatever she wanted, knowing that I had enough money to buy her anything she wanted. It might sound a LittLe shaLLow, but you have to understand that I come from a hard-working, but poor famiLy, so, to have been able to provide for the woman who basicaLLy made me who I am now, that was one of the high Lights of my Life."
Despite the odds, TuaoLo said he did not know, or even suspect, any other gay players in the NFL when he was playing.
"When you're in the closet and your feeL Like you are isoLated and aLL aLone, ifs hard to think of anything else," TuaoLo said. "When I took that courageous step to come out into my truth, I was welcomed and supported by the GLBT community and everyone who truly Liked me. Had I have known that while I was playing, my answer would be, 'yes,' I wouLd have come out sooner."
More on Esera Tuaolo:
- On marriage: "I wouLd Love to register [for the wedding shower], plan a wedding and say 'I do' to the one who wiLL Love me and my two beautiful children for Life. But I need to work on myself before I can give my heart to someone."
- On the NFL: "When I played, times were different [as his nine-year career began with the 1991 NFL draft]. Back then, I never thought of coming out, [or] even doing anything that would jeopardize my position. I never, ever felt safe to come out. Just imagine what the bounty would have been on 'the gay guy.' I beLieve the NFL stilL thinks, or wants to beLieve, that there are no gay NFL players in the League or retired. I reaLLy don't think ifs fair that a veteran of nine years [in the League] is not able to Leave his benefit or pension to his life partner. My bLood and sweat, together with everyone who [has] played in the NFL, went to creating what the NFL is today. I spoke to the NFL a few years ago and asked aLL the women in the room who were married to an NFL player that passed away to raise their hand if they would have been okay if they couLdn't receive their husband's benefits. No one raised their hands because ifs not right. I'm hoping they wiLL change their poLicies and recognize the same rights of gay pLayers."
- On the first openly gay active NFL player: "[He] definitely would have a huge impact on our society."
- On teen suicides from bullying: "Committing suicide is a seLfish act that I can certainLy relate [to]. I've been on the cliff before, ready to jump or ready to puLL the trigger. But there was always something or someone who puLLed me away from the cLiff or took my finger away from the trigger. But when I read about aLL these kids who have unsuccessfuLLy reached out for heLp numerous times, and don't get the help they need and feLt the onLy way out was to check out, that pisses me off. I have dedicated my Life to seeing that this stops. We need to step up to the plate and start doing something about bullying; ifs a reaL problem that needs to be addressed now."
- On the "You Can Play" project: "I am friends with a few NHL hockey players who are straight. We have had discussions on the topic, and I think the NFL player shouLd do the same thing - be welcoming to athletes based on their skills, not based on who they Love. I wouLd have come out whiLe I was stilL pLaying if there was something Like that implicated and supported by the players. It sure would have given me the confidence and drive to play to the best of my potential."
- On an out active player In one of the big four male sports: "As time goes on, and the way thing are progressing with our younger generation coming out, [pLus] President Obama's stance on gay marriage, I wouldn't be surprised if it happens this coming year."
- On his catering business, for events in the Minneapolis area: "I Learned to cook Hawaiian-style from my mom and other chefs from restaurants that I have been part of. I combine my catering skills with singing, if the host wants me to. I Like to caLl myseLf 'The Singing Chef.'"

Subject: Litigation; Gays & lesbians; Domestic violence; Professional football; Mental depression; Social activism

People: Tuaolo, Esera

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Esera Tuaolo: Coming back from darkness

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 37

Pages: 1,18-19

Number of pages: 3

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Jul 4, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1027147453

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/esera-tuaolo-coming-back-darkness/docview/1027147453/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jul 4, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

13th Annual THIRTY under 30

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/13th-annual-thirty-under-30/docview/1024817659/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: In addition to writing winning applications for funding and awards from the American Bar Association (ABA) for John MarshaLL's Diversity Affairs Committee, as a student he founded and has Led the Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity Issues Network of the ABA's Section of InternationaL Law. Issues presented include the systematic abuse of LGBT peopLe under reLigious Legal schemes as weLL as LGBT asyLum under the system of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=35&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=52&amp;date=2012-06-20&amp;atitle=13th+Annual+THIRTY+under+30&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=35&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=52&amp;date=2012-06-20&amp;atitle=13th+Annual+THIRTY+under+30&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: ALLISON BURQUE 29
Allison Burque, 29, is a Licensed cLinicaL sodai worker and activist in the LGBTQ community. She worked for two years as an HIV case manager with the Howard Brown Health Center, and now focuses on queer women's health with the Illinois Breast and Cervical Cancer Program and the Alternative Inseminations Program at the center.
Allison is also a DJ and organizer with Chances Dances, a collective that hosts three monthly queer dance parties and uses the proceeds to provide micro-grants for LGBTQ artists. She recently opened a small private practice that specializes in providing therapy for LGBTQ folks and those impacted by HIV. She currently lives in Logan Square with her partner and their greyhound, Milkshake.
Did you know? Allison once waited on the head coach for the Green Bay Packers, and he gave her a $300 tip. (She didn't mention her Chicago roots.).
LAUREN CARTER 24
Lauren Carter, 24, moved from Minneapolis to Chicago in 2006 to study Spanish and political science at Loyola University. While there, she began to cultivate her ties to Chicago's LGBT community as the vice president of Advocate, Loyola's LGBT student organization, and as an intern for Equality Illinois. After graduation, Lauren worked as the organizer for Vote Naked, a program that encouraged the new absentee/vote-by-mail rules in Illinois; she also served as the LGBT coordinator for Gery Chico in his 2011 bid for mayor.
Currently Lauren serves on the Young Leaders Board of the Center on Halsted, as well as the founding Ambassadors Board at the AIDS Legal CounriL of Chicago. Hoping to someday start her own nonprofit, she is currently taking a break from her 9 to 5 to focus on her writing, which includes "The Ovary Office," a politically charged blog for The L Stop.
Did you know? A traveler at heart, Lauren dreams of being able to travel the world in search of its grassroots Leaders - couchsurfing her way from one country to the next to study the roots of social justice and the queer community's international· presence. Here's to wining the Lottery!
MAR CURRAN 22
Mar Curran, 22, is a trans/queer-rights activist and community organizer. A LoyoLa University Chicago graduate with a Bachelor of Arts degree in communications and women's studies/gender studies, he was active in campus Life through one year as secretary and, Later, president of the schooL LGBT group Advocate. He also served as the Queer Merco LLe giate Alliance's co-chair for two years, working to bring different ChicagoLand schools' queer communities together.
He is on the Vanguard for Video Action League as weLL as the Center on Halsted's Young Leaders Board. In addition, Mar is a staff writer and community outreach manager for In Our Words, an onLine activist and Literary salon for queer peopLe and their allies.
Did you know? Mar Curran knows every word of Destiny's Child's hit song "Say My Name," and can even pLay an acoustic cover of it on the guitar.
PRECIOUS DAVIS 26
Precious Davis, 26, is a native of Omaha, Neb., who moved to Chicago to pursue her passions of theater and nonprofit work after studying in London and Paris. Precious, a graduate of Columbia College Chicago, first achieved recognition Locally thanks to memorable drag performances in Boystown.
Last summer, Precious decided to stop performing and commit her Life to direct service in the nonprofit world. She is an artistic associate with About Face Theatre and a facilitator with the National Conference for Community and Justice in addition to being the youth outreach coordinator at Center on Halsted. In her free time, she delves into photography, queer performance and transgender issues; she also likes being with friends Kandice, Chadwick and Jordan.
Did you know? When she was a college sophomore, Precious walked the 530 stairs to the top of the dome at London's St. Paul's Cathedral - in five-inch stilettos.
ANNA DESHAWN 28
Anna DeShawn, 28, is a Chicago-born social entrepreneur. Anna graduated from Drake University in 2005 with a degree in radio/ television production. She went on to study corporate communications at Ithaca College and graduated with her masters in 2007.
Media has always been Anna's passion so it was natural that she founded E3 Radio, LLC. E3 Radio is an online radio network that produces media to bring about real change. Anna and the QCREW including Brandee Young host their show for queer people of color around the country every Thursday. Anna also produces two additional shows on the E3 network: Conversations with Angie Harvey and Phenomenal Soul Sessions.
Did you know? Anna has been in Love with Good Morning America co-host Robin Roberts all her Life. Interviewing Robin would be the uLtimate experience - and a date with her wouLdn't hurt, either.
NAOIKEI GOLDBERG 29
Naomi GoLdberg, 29, is an LGBT movement and poLicy researcher for the Movement Advancement Project (MAP), a think tank that works to speed equaLity for LGBT peopLe. She's also a collaborator in the Longest-running LongitudinaL study of children raised by Lesbian parents.
Naomi has co-authored reports and articles about LGBT issues such as parenting, domestic vioLence, community-buiLding and progress toward LGBT equaLity. She volunteers with the Mount HoLyoke CLub of Chicago and Limmud Chicago, a Jewish learning conference. Naomi recentLy married her Long-time girlfriend, Libby.
Did you know? Naomi has Lived in eight of the 21 cities on AutoStraddle's Most Lesbionic Cities.
VIVIAN GONZALEZ 29
Vivian GonzaLez, 29, was born on the South Side of Chicago. She attended the InternationaL Academy of Design and Technology, where she got a B.A. in web and media design.
Combining her passions for women and design, Vivian joined forces with Lisa Martinez to create TheLStop.org, an onLine bLog for Local LBTQ women. The L Stop features services such as a biweekLy newsLetter, an updated events and a bLogging system. The year-oLd website has become a hub for women in Chicago and the Midwest. Vivian is excited to see what happens in the near future with The L Stop and LGBTQ.
Did you know? Vivian's favorite animaL is the ferret. Also, if she didn't become a designer she would've been a restaurant chef.
WILL GUZZARDI 25
WiLl Guzzardi, 25, grew up in ChapeL HiLL, N.C., and earned a BacheLor's in comparative Literature from Brown University in 2009. After moving to Chicago's Logan Square, he worked as a reporter and associate editor for Huffíngton Post Chicago, where he covered news, politics, cuLture, sports and more.
In August 2011, this straight aLly of the LGBT community ran for state representative of ILLinois' 39th District with a platform based on the issues of education, housing, government reform and civiL rights. He initiaLLy captured 49.2 percent of the vote, forcing a recount.
WiLl has been a staunch advocate for marriage equaLity, in part because of his own brother, who is gay. In addition, WiLL wrote an editoriaL on the Huffíngton Post about same-sex marriage, at one point saying that "supporting civil unions over marriage is very dangerous. ... This risk is why 'separate but equaL' was eLiminated in America."
Did you know? WiLL founded Brown's premier improv comedy group, and performed for a year on a HaroLd team at the iO improv theater here in Chicago.
YOUNG SUN HAN 29
Young, 29, is a visuaL artist working in photography, performance, installation and scuLpture whose work is unabashedly queer, personaL and politicaL. He recentLy competed on season two of Bravo's Work of Art: The Next Great Artist, where he finished as runner-up.
Young graduated from the School of the Art Institute of Chicago and studied at GoLdsmiths, University of London. In 2005, he received the Congress-Bundestag Youth Exchange grant to Live and work in Cologne, Germany, where he also studied the language. Since moving back to Chicago, Young has exhibited his work at Jean Albano GaLLery, Las Manos GaLlery and New York's Printed Matter Inc. Also, his work has been featured in publications such as Entertainment WeekLy, and his artist book is stiLL raising funds for the organization Life Funds for North Korean Refugees.
Did you know? On midnight of New Year's Eve 2009, Young found a stranger on CraigsList to embrace him for an uninterrupted 24 hours for a performance piece at the Swimming PooL Project Space. Many other strangers joined in for the last 10 minutes.
REGINALD HARRIS 30
Reginald Harris, 30, was born and raised on the South Side of Chicago in the EngLewood neighborhood. He began his dance training with his uncle and mentor Marshall Lindsey at the age of 5, and started his classical ballet training with former Dance Theatre of Harlem principal dancer Homer Bryant at the age of 14. After graduating from Whitney Young Magnet High School in 2000, Reginald trained professionally at the Pennsylvania Ballet and the Pacific Northwest Ballet in Seattle; he joined Ballet Austin in 2002, where he danced professionally for six years.
In 2008, Reginald moved back to Chicago, joining the River North Chicago Dance Company as a company dancer, and joined the dance faculty of the Chicago High School for the Arts (ChiArts) when it first opened its doors in fall of 2009. In 2011 Reginald was named the head of the dance cepartment at ChiArts, where he continues to teach and oversee 130 young dance majors.
Did you know? Reginald makes a Legendary baked macaroni and cheese.
RYAN HART 25
Ryan Hart, 25, was raised on the South Side of Chicago. He attended South Shore Community Academy; after graduation, he attended the International Academy of Design and Technology, but had to stop school because of what turned out to be the HIV strand that began to infect his system.
At the beginning of the next year, he received an officiai diagnosis; Ryan was 19 years old and made it his personal prerogative to share his story with those who would Listen, educating and advising his peers about the virus; and volunteering for different organizations and events. Five years Later, Ryan is fuLfiLLing his dream of advocating to those in need. He is serving as a board member on ACCESS Community HeaLth's Advisory CounciL and the board council for the AIDS Foundation Chicago's Housing Program. He is also a brother with Theta Chi Psi Fraternity, Inc.
Did you know? Ryan is an artist who has been drawing since he was a toddler. He wants to reLease a Line of fashionable HIVprevention T-shirts.
CHRISTOPHER HONGOSH 27
Christopher Hongosh, 27, has been a resident of Chicago for three years. He is originaLLy from Cleveland, where he was involved in the planning and execution ofthat city's Pride fes ti va L. Upon arriving in Chicago, Christopher became a volunteer for Howard Brown and its outreach program regarding STI testing.
Two years ago, Christopher took part in Project Wish's HIV vaccine study at the University of ILLinois at Chicago, and received a tria L vaccine against. Last year, Christopher joined the Ride for AIDS Chicago; he raised $1,300 from his friends and family as weLl as compLeted the 200-miLe, two-day ride. Again this year, Christopher is partaking in the ride and became a co-captain on Team TPAN.
He has recruited four new riders to ride and has set a fundraising goaL of $3,333. On March 29, he held his first fundraiser at DS TequiLa and raised more than $3,000 for TPAN.
Did you know? One of Christopher's favorite Lines is "If I have five oranges, I eat one, save one and give the other three away," attributed to CLeveLand philanthropist Roe Green.
PAUL JOHNSON 29
PauL E. Johnson, 29, was born in Virginia, Minn.; ironicalLy enough, he then grew up from the age of 4 in a town caLLed Nevada, Mo. After trying out six different majors at the University of Missouri-CoLumbia, he decided to move to Chicago to attend The John MarshaLL Law SchooL.
In addition to writing winning applications for funding and awards from the American Bar Association (ABA) for John MarshaLL's Diversity Affairs Committee, as a student he founded and has Led the Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity Issues Network of the ABA's Section of InternationaL Law. Issues presented include the systematic abuse of LGBT peopLe under reLigious Legal schemes as weLL as LGBT asyLum under the system of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. His article, "Uganda's AntiHomosexuaLity BiLl is a Threat to Human Rights and the RuLe of Law," appeared in the April 2010 issue of Africa Law Today.
PauL is currently pursuing non-profit advocacy work and dreams of someday becoming a foreign service officer in the U.S. State Department.
Did you know? PauL ran his own business seLLing books door-to-door during the summer of 2002, and had no idea when he soLd books to Trey Anastasio that he was meeting the Lead singer of Phish.
ANTONIO "APOLLO" JONES
Antonio "ApoLLo" Jones is a young BLack gay man whose creative genius and commitment to his community is evidenced not on Ly by his interaction in various youth programming at Center on HaLsted and Broadway Youth Center, but also the exemplary deportment he maintains in a community chaLlenged by negative stereotypes of gay youth. ApoLLo is a graduate of the Center on HaLsted's SiLver fork program, a 12-week vocational training program for LGBTA aduLts. He has also been a part of the TPAN program Our Voices Advocating Health (OVAH), and is a current member of the youth-empowerment organization Prodigies of Pride.
Did you know? ApoLLo is also a writer, rapper and vocalist.
VERONICA LOZANO 23
Veronica Lozano, 23, is driven by her passion and rage against heteronormative societaL ideals, making this queer Latina a natural to create change. A recent DePauL University alum, Veronica pushes the masses into rethinking what the queer body/ community Looks Like, intersecting identities of not onLy sexuaL orientation, race, gender, and class but also (dis)ability status on a Local and nationaL LeveL - being invoLved with organizations such as the ILLinois Caucus for AdoLescent HeaLth (ICAH) and Advocates for Youth.
She currentLy hoLds many titLes, such as a biLingual heaLth educator/ HIV tester for the Center on HaLsted and a peer (LGBTQ) health educator for Advocates for Youth.
Did you know? Veronica danced with the Joffrey BaLLet of Chicago for five years.
JIM MERRELL 28
Jim MerreLL has worked in HIV/AIDS policy and advocacy since 2007.
He currently works as national coalition development coordinator at AIDS Foundation of Chicago (AFC). In this role, Jim helps to coordinate the HIV Prevention Justice Alliance, a national coalition of individuals and organizations working at the intersection of HIV/AIDS and social justice. He also Leads Dose of Change, an evolving project that strives to build the community knowledge and organizing capacity of HIV/AIDS advocates.
Previously, Jim worked as a policy associate at AFC, where he was charged with Leading the organization's statewide grassroots organizing efforts. As resident "tech nerd," he has helped to integrate new technoLogies into AFCs poLicy work, incLuding electronic advocacy systems, virtual trainings and an ever-expanding List of websites.
Did you know? Jim is a Pisces, Loves to sing and hoLds a B.A. in poLitical science from Northwestern University. In addition, he can do a good impression of Chewbacca from Star Wars.
ellie navidson, 25
ellie navidson, 25, moved to Chicago as a youngster, growing under the influence of the punk scene and becoming deeply passionate about issues of social justice. eLLie went to the University of ILLinois at Chicago and received a degree in gender and women's studies.
ellie organizes with Genderqueer Chicago, co-founded No Boys ALLowed and works on various other safe-space, consciousnessraising and Literary projects. elLie's committed to anti-assimiLationist queer politics, radical visibility and brave personal growth. Lastly, eLLie does written expLorations of gender and normativity, with a personaL blog at invisibLyqueer.tumblr.com.
Did you know? eLLie has a freckLe in her eye and thinks of it as gLitter from God.
KATE PALMER 29
Kate PaLmer, 29, is a queer, working-cLass feminist activist originaLly from the Detroit area. Her work focuses on the intersections of reproductive justice and queer issues.
She received an undergraduate degree from Ohio WesLeyan University and has spent the Last 10 years working in reproductive healthcare and HIV outreach and education. Kate is the co-founder of 45 MiLlion Voices, a project to reduce stigma around abortion as weLL as the co-founder and co-director of the Chicago DouLa Circle, an organization that provides doula support for folks going though abortion experiences. She is also a birth and postpartum doula speciaLizing in the needs of queer and trans families. In addition, Kate is currently a board member of the Chicago Women's HeaLth Center and the Chicago Abortion Fund.
Did you know? When Kate was a young chiLd, she was inexpLicably fascinated by Pope John PauL II.
JUANA PERALTA 28
Juana, 28 is a Latina queer organizer. As a core member of the Chicago Dyke March CoLLective, Juana, has pLayed a pivotaL role in the organization of the Dyke March in South Shore and the upcoming Chicago Dyke March in ArgyLe/Uptown.
Juana was born in Bogota, CoLombia; she was raised in New York City and Miami, and attended the University of CentraL Florida in OrLando, FLa. Juana helps organize/co-hosts Heavy Rotation, a queer fat/body-positive dance party. Juana writes/coLLaborates on a queer writing co LLective/micro press, "Failed Attempt," which she helped founded in 2011. There are two volumes of zines and assorted collected mixed media work.
Did you know? Juana also goes by the stage name of "Jennifer Love Handles" and dreams of attending cuLinary schooL one day.
MUGSIE PIKE 24
Mugsie Pike, 24, was born in Milwaukee, Wis., but has Chicago roots. Mugsie (who prefers the pronoun "they") went to Northwestern University, where they doubLe-majored in theatre - with a focus on costume design - and gender studies. They wrote an honors thesis on the roLe Lingerie in the construction of gender.
After coLLege, Mugsie combined a Love of sewing with a desire to create relevant individuaL-scale feminist and queer-positive change. With this goaL, they studied custom bra-making and started Renegade Lingerie, a purposeLy inclusive custom Lingerie company that makes foundation wear for peopLe of aLL sizes, genders, abilities and orientations. Mugsie designed one of the first stand-to-pee packing harnesses on the market, and received a Critical Fierceness grant for it. They also co-run the Intersex Chicago group at the Center on HaLsted.
Did you know? Mugsie pLayed baritone saxophone in high schooL and was the only band member crazy enough to march with it.
DIDA RITZ
No stranger to the Local or global scene, DiDa Ritz has been doing drag for five years. DiDa's name comes from her Love of modeL/ burLesque dancer Dita von Teese and the Ritz-CarLton HoteL. Ritz has worked with About Face Theatre; at venues such as the Lakeview nightspots Hydrate and BerLin; has performed at TPAN's Chicago Takes Off benefit; and has worked with ceLebrities such as Margaret Cho.
Many saw DiDa compete on RuPauL's Drag Race, where the self-procLaimed "Legs of HaLsted" placed in the top five.
Did you know? DiDa's favorite ? Lace is the HeLLo Kitty store.
RICARDO SEBASTIAN 26
Ricardo Sebastian, 26, Launched Luxury Management (LUX MGT) as a fundraising project to support Local non-profits through event production and fashion shows in 2008, while he was president of Students in Free Enterprise at Robert Morris University (RMU SIFE).
In Less than a year, Ricardo has taken his brand from Chicago to New York and L.A., benefiting such organizations as the American Cancer Society. He is best known for his philanthropic efforts at minibar ULtra Lounge; however, Ricardo also promotes with fashion and art, with the intention to make the rest of the community aware of new members of the LGBT community as they work in their new projects. His work has generated more than $600,000 for Chicago's Local businesses and has impacted more than 40,000 people.
Did you know? Ricardo has a purple belt in karate. He chose not to move forward because he didn't agree with the color scheme after purple.
MIKE SIMMONS 29
Mike Simmons, 29, hails from the Lincoln Square neighborhood on Chicago's North Side. He attended Amherst College for his undergraduate degree, where he became student body president his senior year and Led efforts to Launch an on-campus think tank. He also interned for then-Sen. Barack Obama.
After graduating in 2006, he took a job in the private sector before heading to Capitol HiLl to staff Sen. Dick Durbin. In 2009, he returned to Chicago to head poLicy for Cook County Commissioner Bridget Gainer. Mike also served as curriculum chair for the inaugural cLass of the New Leaders Council in Chicago in 2010. He now serves as Mayor Rahm Emanuel's poLicy director.
Mike also served as curriculum chair for the inaugural cLass of the New Leaders Council in Chicago in 2010. He now serves as Mayor Rahm Emanuel's poLicy director.
Did you know? He once won an award for riding a unicycle.
ANTHONY SINGLETON 21
Anthony SingLeton, 21, began working with Chicago's Taskforce Prevention & Community Services shortLy after graduating from high schooL. Since then he has worked with other organizations such as Project VIDA, Chicago BLack Gay Men's Caucus and the Chicago ChiLd Care Society.
He now works with the Center on HaLsted, where he is working on two grants. One of them invoLves the Mpowerment project, a peer- and network-based community-Level intervention meant to reach African-American and Latino maLes 16 to 24. Anthony also works on the National Strategy with Youth Pride Services, which highlights what it is like to grow up BLack and gay in Chicago.
Did you know? Anthony has more than 25 brothers and sisters.
DONTÉ SMITH 26
Donté Smith, 26, is a Houston transplant who has been part of sociaL-justice projects invoLving issues ranging from Labor to transgender/queer rights.
Donté currently works at Heartland ALLiance as an HIV prevention speciaList. They also serve as a member of the AIDS United AmeriCorps Chicago team that recevied the 2012 ALexian Award of Excellence from the ALexian Brothers' AIDS Ministry for its Long-term community courtyard project.
In 2010, Donté co-founded the Black and Brown Punk Show series, which focuses on individuals and communities of color. This fall, Donté wiLL Launch HIVoices, a documentary and blog series highLighting the voices of Long-term survivors of HIV. As someone Living with HIV since 2009, Donté hopes it wiLL serve as a resource for people newLy diagnosed with the virus.
Did you know? Donté is an experienced herbaList, tarot reader, and kiLLer cook whose vegan curried eggplant-pizza recipe has snatched trophies.
ANDREW SOBOTKA 26
Andrew Sobotka, 26, works in IT operations for CSG Media, and serves as the president of the Chicago Gay Hockey Association (CGHA).
A native of Detroit (known as Hockeytown), Andrew graduated from Michigan State University in 2007 with a B.A. in telecommunications. He moved to Chicago and initiaLly worked for HewLett-Packard, constantLy traveLing. However, he derided to work for CSG Media in 2009, which aLlowed him to estabLish roots in the city.
Joining the CGHA - first as a player, and now as the organization's president - has been one of the more fuLfiLLing pursuits Andrew has experienced. After the Chicago BLackhawks won the StanLey Cup in 2010, Andrew invited the team to join the CGHA in the Chicago Gay Pride Parade - an invitation that was accepted and widely covered in Local and nationaL media outlets. Since 2010, the CGHA has donated and raised nearLy $10,000 for charities such as the Howard Brown HeaLth Center and Chicago Cares.
Did you know? Andrew is a vegetarian and a wannabe urban vegetabLe farmer. He Loves beets.
BRETT TAYLOR 25
Brett Taylor, 25, grew up in smaLL-town Indiana and moved to Chicago to attend the Chicago CoLLege of Performing Arts at RooseveLt University, where he graduated with a degree in musical theater.
WhiLe in coLlege, Brett began working at Chicago Children's Museum and has been in his current roLe as speciaL projects coordinator for the Office of the President for the last year and a half. He is an active supporter of the LGBT community as a member of the ILLinois Safe Schools ALLiance's Education and Training Committee as weLl as at the museum, where he Leads the museum's ALL Families Matter Initiative, a LGBT community-outreach project. He is also active with United Way of Metropolitan Chicago, where he is a member of the externaL Diveristy Committee.
Did you know? A proud Eagle Scout, Brett has a ro Lier- co aster addiction.
KYLE THOMAS 25
KyLe Thomas, 25, was born in Milwaukee. After years of professional acting, writing novels and plays, and studying psychology, mythology and Literature, he co-founded Hesperidian Productions with Jane Morson in 2011.
Hesperidian Productions is a Chicago-based company that produces film, fashion and music. Kyle's Leadership as president of the company and his position as film director have Led the company to produce an award-winning short film, "Awakening," as weLL as "StiLetto," which premiered to a crowd of more than 1,000 peopLe in March. Hesperidian is now deveLoping its first feature fUrn, which KyLe wiLL direct; the movie wiLL be produced just outside of Chicago.
Did you know? KyLe wrote his first novel at age 14 after a history teacher confiscated his work during cLass. She was impressed with his storyteLLing abilities and took him under her wing, teaching him the "hero's journey."
SHENA WILLBRANDT 29
A passionate activist at heart, Shena WilLbrant, 29, spends her days working for the Lesbian Community Care Project and her free time training camp professionals and youth about LGBTQ advocacy.
Shena was born and raised in Battle Creek, Mich. WhiLe receiving a bacheLor's degree in sociaL work and women's studies from Western Michigan University, she worked in Michigan, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. She has since settLed in Chicago, where she is pursuing a graduate degree at LoyoLa University Chicago.
Shena unites her Love of feminist activism with camp by deveLoping and facilitating curricuLum and training materials for the American Camp Association. A fierce advocate for women's health, she also works to connect queer women to health and welLness programs and services by providing outreach at professionaL conferences, city festivals and LocaL events.
Did you know? Shena's hometown of BattLe Creek, Mich. - known as the "CereaL Capital of the WorLd" - hosts her aLl-time favorite festival, "The World's Longest Breakfast TabLe" every June. More than 60,000 people join together to eat a community breakfast.
JENAE WILLIAMS 29
A cultural curator for the Chicago queer and Lesbian scene for the Last 10 years, Jenae WiLLiams, 29, begs you don't do the math or you wiLL hear the story of her getting kicked out of the CLoset by Tabitha at age 17 or rebellious pool games at Stargaze at 19. Currently doing customer service for Stardust at the Berlin nightcLub, she has also hosted the only Lesbian party on the Halsted strip with FaLL Out Boy's Pete Wentz at the heLm.
Named one of Chicago's "Cultural Curators" by Time Out Chicago and winner of the Chicago Reader's poLL for best female promoter in 2011, she tries to organize parties in safe spaces fiLLed with amazing music and weLcoming staff. Jenae is a board member of the Chicago Michfest Planning Committee. Over the Last two years she has helped 14 womyn receive scholarship tickets to the Michigan's Womyns Music Festival.
Jenae is also involved with DecibeLle, an annuaL not-for-profit, community-based event that features international acclaimed and emerging female musicians and artists, educators, activists and community Leaders in dozens of events.
Did you know? Proclaiming boLdly that she is the most consistency photographed Lesbian in Nightspots magazine, Jenae is very proud to be a Boistown lesbian and to be a 30 under 30 winner.

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Social workers; Activists; Entrepreneurs; Non-binary gender

Business indexing term: Subject: Entrepreneurs

People: Burque, Allison; Curran, Mar; DeShawn, Anna

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: 13th Annual THIRTY under 30

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 35

Pages: 52-57

Number of pages: 6

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Jun 20, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1024817659

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/13th-annual-thirty-under-30/docview/1024817659/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jun 20, 2012

Last updated: 2023-08-28

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Organizers start new chapter with Black LGBT Pride event

Author: Wilson, Jason Carson

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/organizers-start-new-chapter-with-black-lgbt/docview/1021059768/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "The 3 o'cLock-to-6 o'clock window is critical," [Ariq Cabbler] told Windy City Times, referring to the most popular HIV-testing hours. "If we have to close at 5, that means we have to shut down by 4:30," he added. "The peopLe attending this event wiLL bear the brunt of it."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=32&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=12&amp;date=2012-05-30&amp;atitle=Organizers+start+new+chapter+with+Black+LGBT+Pride+event&amp;au=Wilson%2C+Jason+Carson&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=32&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=12&amp;date=2012-05-30&amp;atitle=Organizers+start+new+chapter+with+Black+LGBT+Pride+event&amp;au=Wilson%2C+Jason+Carson&amp;id=doi:

Full text: All of the rainbow's coLors weren't always welcome at the Pride Parade.
Montrose Rocks creative director Anthony GaLLoway said that exclusion inspired the Windy City's African-American LGBT community's event.
GaLLoway said peopLe of color initialLy gathered at BeLmont Harbor in the 1970s - until the event's growth Led them to Montrose Harbor. They'LL gather again right after the 2012 Gay Pride Parade June 24. Montrose Rocks is Litera LLy a party with more than one purpose.
The event, GaLLoway said, is credited as the nation's Largest one-day HIV-testing site, responding to then -President BilL Clinton's 1997 caLL. With that said, ifs now focusing on overaLl women's heaLth as weLL.
"We want to be incLusive of the entire LGBT community," GaLLoway said.
In addition to breast and cervicaL cancer, the event also offers resources and information about domestic violence. However, according to GaLLoway, Montrose Rocks provides more than heaLth advice and testing.
"It brings a sense of community," he said. "Ifs essential that an event Like this occurs."
Research apparentLy reveals LGBT peopLe - with a community of supporters - have better heaLth outcomes. Also, Lakeview isn't the only neighborhood where LGBT Chicagoans Live.
"We know that our community is spread out aLL over Chicago," GaLLoway said.
WhiLe Montrose Rocks is a welL-known HIVtesting venue, entertainment is a major draw as weLL. Since organizers are stiLL planning, GaLLoway couLdn't reveaL any anticipated acts. However, neo-soul artist Kenchris and a compLete drag show have been among past attractions.
"We're planning a spectacuLar event," GaLLoway said. "We'LL puLLing peopLe from [aLL over] the community."
Montrose Rocks wiLL also feature U.S. Rep. Danny K. Davis. So, music - and messages - wiLL be prominent. That suits event co-founder and Rocks Coordinating Committee president emeritus MichaeL O'Connor just fine.
"We wanted more than a party," O'Connor said about the efforts of him, Marc Loveless and Lloyd KeLLy to Launch the Montrose Rocks event, several years after the original Belmont Rocks celebration had started.
"Ifs the Largest [organized] African-American presence on the Lakefront," he said.
It became the first group with a Legal right to gather.
"We decided we were going to be proactive," O'Connor said. "We had a Legal right to get the permit and we used that permit."
That permit alLowed Montrose Rocks to showcase entertainment, a vital heaLth service, a platform to policymakers as weLL as LGBT constituent access to those power players.
In addition to Davis, U.S. Reps. Bobby Rush and Jesse Jackson Jr. as weLL as Late former Cook County Board President John Stroger, Jr. and state Rep. Constance Howard have headlined the event. O'Connor is a former staffer for Howard.
Montrose Rocks, he said, honors the AfricanAmerican lawmakers, advocates such as The Civil Rights Agenda's Rick Garda and the unsung heroes who were at New York's StonewaLL Inn -birthpLace of the modern LGBT civiL-rights movement.
"We've honored anyone who's successfuLLy achieved what we consider community service," O'Connor said.
O'Connor said the Rocks Coordinating Committee is the onLy active organization to honor African-American policymakers as weLL as allies publicLy. He stressed why he and feLLow Rocks Coordinating Committee founders had such a civic-minded focus.
"We understood the importance - un Like the apolitical [individuáis] who fought us - of visibility of public policy decision-makers," he said. "That visibility translates into helping public policy."
Before the Rocks Coordinating Committee was created in 1996, house music producer Frankie Knuckles played out of the back of his van at BeLmont Rocks.
"As far as I can remember, African Americans have aLways gathered separateLy from the parade," O'Connor said. "There was a time we were not effectively reached out to."
Frankly, he said, BeLmont Rocks was a direct response to the "inability of promoters to adequately and LegaLLy have a party on the Lakefront." O'Connor said "the Chicago Police ran us off the lakefront" in the 1980s.
"They said we were not a part of the pride events," he said.
Now, thanks to Montrose Rocks, both women and peopLe of coLor have become more involved in pride events. Early in the morning, O'Connor said, the event is more family-oriented. By afternoon, younger gay men make their grand entrance after the parade.
"We make sure there's a public awareness about HIV/AIDS, because [some] organizations clearLy weren't doing their job," O'Connor said. "We have service providers who normaLLy do this work."
Montrose Rocks had ended festivities at 7 p.m. - until violence prompted city pushback. Violence Led to Chicago PoLice Department's demand for a 5 p.m. closure, according to a previous Windy City Times story.
Rocks Coordinating Committee president Ariq Cabbler didn't dispute the vioLence claim. However, Cabbler stressed the effects of an earLier closing time.
"The 3 o'cLock-to-6 o'clock window is critical," Cabbler told Windy City Times, referring to the most popular HIV-testing hours. "If we have to close at 5, that means we have to shut down by 4:30," he added. "The peopLe attending this event wiLL bear the brunt of it."
The city and organizers disagree that the event was being closed early. Then-City of Chicago LGBT liaison BilL Greaves said the city only asked that the pubLic address system be shut off at 5 p.m. IronicaLLy, the PA system is Montrose Rocks' biggest draw - and problem, according to Greaves.
"We're not saying that ifs these peopLe who come here that are causing the vioLence," he said. "Ifs not even the people who come here after the parade. Ifs another element that is drawn here after 5 o'clock [by the entertainment] that is causing the problem."
GaLLoway said the Rocks Coordinating Committee has been working with Chicago PoLice Department District 19, Chicago Park District and 46th Aid. James CappLeman's office to resoLve the closing time issue. He said they were close to a "tentative" compromise on a 7 p.m. closing time.
Tressa Feher, CappLeman's chief of staff, said things are on the right track.
"Everything is moving forward with the event," Feher said. "It wiLL stay the same."

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Expansion; Special events; Events planning; Promoters; African Americans

Location: Lakeview Illinois; Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Organizers start new chapter with Black LGBT Pride event

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 32

Pages: 12

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: May 30, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1021059768

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/organizers-start-new-chapter-with-black-lgbt/docview/1021059768/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 30, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Marriage equality includes the military

Author: Sarvis, Aubrey

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/marriage-equality-includes-military/docview/1018450184/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Without the president's extraordinary Leadership, there wouLd have been no repeaL of "[Don]'t Ask, Don't TeLL" (DADT). Working for repeal allowed the president to get to know more of our gay and Lesbian service members and their families, to hear their stories and the chaLLenges they faced and stiLL face. They heLped persuade the president that it was time to bring about the end of DADT.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=30&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=18&amp;date=2012-05-16&amp;atitle=Marriage+equality+includes+the+military&amp;au=Sarvis%2C+Aubrey&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=30&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=18&amp;date=2012-05-16&amp;atitle=Marriage+equality+includes+the+military&amp;au=Sarvis%2C+Aubrey&amp;id=doi:

Full text: "When I think about those soldiers or airmen or marines or sailors who are out there fighting on my behalf and yet feel constrained, even now that Don't Ask, Don't Tell is gone, because they're not able to commit themselves in a marriage.. .it is important for me to go ahead and affirm that I think same-sex couples should be able to get married."- President Barack Obama, May 9, 2012
It was indeed an historic moment May 9 when President Obama Linked the freedom for aLL to serve with the freedom for aLL to marry, whatever their gender, whatever their orientation. ALthough proponents of marriage equaLity are in an increasing majority, it took more than moral conviction for the president to make that heartfelt statement; considering the polarized state of the nation today and the clamor of the opposition, it took politicaL courage.
Consider that North CaroLina, on May 8, voted by a 22-percent margin for a constitutional amendment that would ban not only same sex coupLes from marrying but also ban aLL civil unions and domestic partnerships, same sex or opposite sex. Its ramifications wouLd extend to cases of domestic violence and child custody, end-of-Life issues, and more. What makes it even more absurd is that gay marriage is aLready iLLegal in North CaroLina. But I guess you can't be too careful.
The situation as it stands in our country today is untenable. In North Carolina, two gay soldiers stationed at Fort Bragg who want to get married and commit themselves to each other are unable to do so.
Yet the same two soldiers, shouLd they be transferred to Fort Drum in New York State, couLd marry and have that marriage recognized by the state. UnfortunateLy, though Legally married in New York, their marriage wiLL stiLL not be recognized by the Pentagon nor wiLlthey receive the same benefits other married military couples receive. Why not? Because the so-caLLed Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) prohibits it.
Without the president's extraordinary Leadership, there wouLd have been no repeaL of "Don't Ask, Don't TeLL" (DADT). Working for repeal allowed the president to get to know more of our gay and Lesbian service members and their families, to hear their stories and the chaLLenges they faced and stiLL face. They heLped persuade the president that it was time to bring about the end of DADT.
Today, the president, his attorney generaL and the secretary of defense are fu LLy aware of the constitute naL case that the Servicemembers LegaL Defense Network (SLDN) has brought on behaLf of severaL LegaLLy married service members and veterans. We are fighting in court to overturn DOMA and assure that gay and Lesbian married military coupLes receive the same benefits from the Pentagon and the Department of Veterans Affairs that their married straight comrades take for granted.
On May 9, the president connected the dots between repeaL of DADT and marriage equaLity, underscoring the impact of gay and Lesbian service members in the ongoing marriage equaLity debate.
Those gay and Lesbian service members whose stories the president heard, who were discriminated against and kicked out of their jobs because of their sexuaL orientation, wiLL be heard and seen again in the debate on CapitoL HiLL and in the courts as the fight for marriage equaLity escalates.
I fail to see how we can embrace and thank these patriots for their military service and sacrifice and yet deny them the fundamental right to marry the person they Love. I think the president doesn't see it, either.
AuthorAffiliation Aubrey Sarvis is a U.S. Army veteran and executive director of the Servicemembers Legal Defense Network.

Subject: Equality; Same sex marriage; Gays & lesbians; Military policy; Sexual orientation discrimination

Location: United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Marriage equality includes the military

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 30

Pages: 18

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: May 16, 2012

Section: VIEWPOINTS

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 1018450184

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/marriage-equality-includes-military/docview/1018450184/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 16, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

calendar

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calendar/docview/1017540146/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Screening: A Mind in Quicksand: Life with Huntington's Poignant, timely documentary traces a woman's experience living with Huntington's disease (HD) and its impact on her friends and family. It will have a limited run of three showings only through May 7. The film's creators - director Kirn Lile, producer Sh aro n Zurek, and executive producer Jesse Ewing - will appear for Q&A. Tickets are $11. 7:45pm, 800-982-2787, Gene Siskel Film Center, 164 N State St., www.ticketmaster.com

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=28&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=28&amp;date=2012-05-02&amp;atitle=calendar&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=28&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=28&amp;date=2012-05-02&amp;atitle=calendar&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Wed., May 2
Vital Nights: Cinco de Mayo Escape the daily grind and join the Vital Bridges Center on Chronic Care's Junior Networking Committee in celebrating Cinco de Mayo. Tickets are $20 online or $25 at the door. Reserve your place now as space is limited. 6pm-9pm, J Bar, 610 N Rush St., www. heartlandalliance.org
Gay Liberation Network organizing meeting Join with Chicago's LGBT direct action group at their monthly organizing meeting - new members welcome! 7pm-9pm, 773-209-1187, Berger Park Cultural Center 6205 N. Sheridan Rd., www.gayliberation. net
Spider Saloff's "The Roar of the Butterfly" Preview: KMP Artists proudly presents acclaimed vocalist, actor and songwriter Spider Saloff and her highly entertaining one-woman musical through May 20. I In the tradition of Lily Tomlin and Tracey Ullman, Saloff portrays eight different characters in this new musical comedy. 7:30pm-10pm, 773-871-3000, Victory Gardens' Richard Christiansen Theater, www.victorygardens.org
The Encyclopedia Show, Vol. 10: Alan Turing Cast of characters includes the Fact Checker, Patrick the Intern, Jilted Emily Rose and house band The Encartagans, will be powdering their finest wigs for ' you! Featuring Hava Spiegelman, a leading AI expert and HBO Def Poet Kristiana Colon. 7:30pm, Vittum Theater. 1012 N. Noble St., www.encyclopediashow.com
Jersey Shore: The Musical Join the cast of 'Jersey Shore: The Musical' as they perform live at The CaIL Catch all your favorite show tune videos! 9pm, The Call (Chicago), 1547 W Bryn Mawr, Chicago
Windy City Gay Idol Windy City Gay Idol continues the search for the best amateur gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender ( GLBT ) singers in the Chicago area. 9pm singer sign up. 10pm, Touche, 6412 N Clark St, Chicago, http://www.windycitymediagroup.com/lgbt/windy-city-gayidol-kicks-off-1 Oth -year-/3 6745.html
Thursday, May 3
Queering the Airwaves: Webinar on Community Radio Opportunity Opportunity for LGBTQ groups to start their own radio stations. 1000+ new licenses will be available in most cities in the U.S. including urban areas where their signal can reach up to a half million people. 2pm, online, http://prometheusradio.org/want_to_ start_a_station
American Veterans for Equal Rights (GLBT veterans) Monthly meeting first Thursday of each month. 7pm, Center on Halsted, 3656 N Halsted St., www.averchicago.org
A Streetcar Named Desire Tennessee William's play with an all womyn of color cast set in modern day Chicago. This queer interpretation explores the complexities of lesbian, bisexual and transgender relationships with an emphasis on samesex intimate partner violence and its realities/secrecy in communities of color. This play contains strong language and adult situations. Fundraiser. 7:30pm, Athenaeum Theatre, 2936 N Southport Ave., Tickets: https://web.ovatio ntix.com/trs/ pe/9668031
Drag Idol Hydrate Nightclub presents season two of Drag Idol! A winner is chosen every week to take home a cash prize of $100 and secure a spot to compete in the Drag Idol Finals to win a prize package worth over $10,000! 9pm, Hydrate, 3458 N. Halsted St., www.hydratechicago.com/ home/
Steampunk Thursdays Elate is taking its eco-friendly philosophy to new heights, on Thursdays, by re-inventing itself as the Steampunk center of Chicago. 9:30pm, 312-202-9900, Elate, 111 W Huron St., www.elatechicago.com
Friday, May 4
Manifest Urban Arts Festival Columbia College Chicago celebrates the work of its more than 2,000 graduating students with its annual urban arts festival From art exhibitions to readings, from original designs to singer showcases, the talent will spill out from Columbia's South Loop Campus and onto the streets, with main stage performances from student bands creating the musical backdrop; 12pm10:45pm, Festival Lots - 1001 S. Wabash Ave, http://www.colum.edu/manifest
Living Single, building the African American Community House of Avant Garde Inc., School of Opulence, Tommy Avant. Leadership , Advocacy, and HIV Prevention Programming. Hot topics, food and refreshments. 6:30pm, School of Opulence, South Shore, 1857 E. 71st St., http://theschoobfopulence.webs.com/
Meet author Robert Taylor In his new book A New Way to Be Human: 7 Spiritual Pathways to Becoming Fully Alive, Robert Taylor speaks to looking for a life of bold compassion and feeling. Part memoir and part spiritual guidebook, ifs divided into seven chapters of spiritual pathways with three items of practice at each section's end to guide the reader's journey. 7pm-9pm, 773-293-2665, The Book Cellar, 4736 N. Lincoln Ave., www.robertvtaylor. com
Jackleg Press reading Jackleg magazine is becoming Jackleg Press, an independent publisher of poetry and fiction. 7pm, Women & Children First Books, 5233 N. Clark St. www.womenandchildrenfirst.com
Alex In Wonderland Alex In Wonderland continues MidTangenfs dedication to bringing original works with a familiar twist to the Chicago LGBTQ community, providing once again the chance to relive your childhood with stories that are close to your heart, told the way you've always wanted. 9pm-llpm, Hydrate, 3458 N. Halsted St., www.hydratechicago.com/
The Flesh Hungry Dog Show Says Goodbye After 7 years of monthly GLBT-centric rock and variety. The Flesh Hungry Dog Show's final installment with an all-star lineup of the show's most popular performers: The Joans, Jinx Titanic (who chose the Flesh Hungry Dog Show for his return to the stage after a several year break from performing) and The Handcuffs. 9pm, 773-743-5772, Jackhammer, 6406 N Clark Street, Chicago, Tickets: http://www. fleshhungrydog.com
Jennifer Lopez single release party The new single "Dance Again" from Epic Records. Win copies of the single and other swag. Featuring a Jennifer Lopez video showcase. 9pm, The Call (Chicago), 1547 W Bryn Mawr Ave.
Saturday, May 5
Women & Children First at the Chicago Green Festival Women & Children First is the official bookseller and free admission tickets for the Chicago Green Festival are available at the bookstore on a first-come basis. 12pm-8pm, Navy Pier, 600 E Grand Ave., www.greenfestivals.org/chicago
Cinco de Mayo with SHHH. ..OUT! Jazz Band Spend Cinco de Mayo with Lakeside Pride's SHHH...OUT! Jazz Band. This program features three 30-minute sets including many Latin favorites. 7pm-9pm, The Call (Chicago), 1547 W Bryn Mawr Ave., www.lakesidepride.org
Screening: A Mind in Quicksand: Life with Huntington's Poignant, timely documentary traces a woman's experience living with Huntington's disease (HD) and its impact on her friends and family. It will have a limited run of three showings only through May 7. The film's creators - director Kirn Lile, producer Sh aro n Zurek, and executive producer Jesse Ewing - will appear for Q&A. Tickets are $11. 7:45pm, 800-982-2787, Gene Siskel Film Center, 164 N State St., www.ticketmaster.com
Pioneering physique films of Bob Mizer Two nights, two programs of rare work (from the 1940s-'90s) by pioneering gay physique and erotica photographer and filmmaker Bob Mizer. Concludes May 6. 8pm, Nightingale Theatre, 1084 N. Milwaukee Ave., www.WhiteLightCinema.com
Nurse Education About LGBT elders Howard Brown Health Center cultural competency course for nurses on the concerns of the older LGBT patient, barriers to care, health disparities that LGBT elders face, insight into the roles that gender and sexuality play, how HIV is affecting the older adult and how effectively communicate withpatients. 6.0 contact hours, provided by Rush University College of Nursing. Bring your lunch. 9pm, 773-572-5123, Chamberlain College of Nursing, 3300 N. Campbell Ave. www.howardbrown.org
Sunday, May 6
Urban Village Church: Andersonville service Andersonville is a neighborhood full of passion, art, diversity, and eclectic energy, all which makes Urban Village Church thrilled to be joining the community! 10:30am-ll:45am, 1602 W. Ainslie (at Ashland), www.newchicagochurch.com
Urban Village Church Spiritual worship is about coming together as community to make space for God to move in us. 10:15am-ll:30am, Urban Village Church, Spertus Institute, 610 S. Michigan Ave., www.urbanvillagechurch.org
Chicago House 25th Annual Spring Brunch and Fashion Show ll:30am-3pm, Harold Washington Library Center, 400 S. State St. www.chicagohouse.org
Meet the cast and crew of the movie Scrooge and Marley Scrooge and Marley is a modern-day variation on Dickens' classic story, coming from a gay sensibility with heart, comedy and music 3pm5pm, Mary's Attic, 5400 N Clark St., www. scroogeandmarleymovie.com
Ride for AIDS Fundraiser featuring BullFighter and The Locals Join BullFighter and the Locals for an evening of music benefiting Ride for AIDS Chicago. 6pm-10pm, Beat Kitchen 2100 W. Belmont Ave., www. faceb oo k.com/events/15 97 073 7081843 O/
Monday, May 7
F**k Yeah, Anxiety! An autobiographical sob sketch comedy show dealing with crazy moms, musical theatre, bad dates, auditions, and lesbianism. Mondays at 7pm through May 14 with a different opening act every night. 7:30pm-8:30pm, Gorilla Tango Theatre Bucktown, http://www. facebook.com/pages/fya-erica-slutskysone-woman-show/129493840465183
Mr. and Miss H eart of America Continental Featuring current Miss and Mr. Continental Alexis Gabrielle Sherrington and Philip Alexander, and the current reigning Mr. and Miss Heart of America JoI D. Principle and Tiffany T. Hunter. $20 for both pageants plus the infamous Stella buffet. 8pm, Baton Show Lounge, 436 N. Clark St., www. stella pro ductio ns2 .com
Tuesday, May 8
Screening of Miss Representation Documentary by Jennifer Siebel Newsom, exposing how mainstream media contribute to the under-representation of women in positions of power and influence in America. 6pm, Music Box Theatre, 3733 N Southport Ave., www.missrepresentation. org/screenings/
Wed., May 9
Kit Kat !Calamity and Farewell Extravaganza and COH Fundraiser LIVE MUSIC from the likes of (but not limited to) Jeff Brown, David Kav, Monica del Castillo, Ashleigh Ashton, Dawn Xiana Moon, Matt Ryd, Jeannie Tanner, Jeff ChurchwelL Heather Styka, Jess Godwin and more to be announced; 5:30pm-9:30pm, Center on Halsted, 3656 N Halsted St.
Equality IL Spring Wine Tasting Join Equality IL and Sidetrack for their fabulous Spring Wine Tasting event. Tickets are available for just a $20 donation to Equality Illinois PAC. You'll have access to over 100 wines from around the world and hors d'oeuvres provided by J&L Catering! This super-popular event caters to all palates and budgets. 6pm-9pm, Sidetrack, 3349 N Halsted St, Chicago, www.eqil.org
Sidebar HELLO GOODBYE
Wed., May 9
Chicago will say "until Ia to photographer Kat Fitzgeral (right) at Center on Halsted, 3656 N. Halsted St.
TIE ONE ON
Sunday, May 6
The 25th annuaL Chicago House Spring Brunch and Fashion Show wiLL take pLace at HaroLd Washington Library, 400 5. State St.
RIDING THE TITANIC
Friday, May 4
Jinx Titanic (above) will be part of the final Flesh Hungry Dog Show. It will take place at Jackhammer, 6406 N. Clark St.
Get calendar online
Q: WindyCityMediaGroup.com ChicagoPride.com

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: calendar

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 28

Pages: 28

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: May 2, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 1017540146

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calendar/docview/1017540146/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 2, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Panel discusses violence in gay male communities

Author: Chappell, Terrence

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/panel-discusses-violence-gay-male-communities/docview/1017540129/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: One of the things that I think that happens a Lot i n sexuaL violence movements is that men are directly reLated to their penises," [RandaLL Jenson] said. "Therefore, we rape. We penetrate. One of the things that I've aLways struggLed with on a personal LeveLis that being someone who is a bottom; my relationship with my penis is secondary. But in many discussions about sexuaL violence, I 'should' be thinking with my penis.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=28&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2012-05-02&amp;atitle=Panel+discusses+violence+in+gay+male+communities&amp;au=Chappell%2C+Terrence&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=28&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2012-05-02&amp;atitle=Panel+discusses+violence+in+gay+male+communities&amp;au=Chappell%2C+Terrence&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Warning: This article contains graphic information about a nonconsensual sexual encounter.
Community activists, university officials, students, and LGBTQ advocates all gathered at DePauL's Munrae HaLL ApriL 25 for "Asking For It" - a pa ne L discussion that focused on the so da L stigmas of sexuaL and domestic violence in gay ma Le communities.
Moderated by RandaLL Jenson, executive director of SociaLScope Productions and founder of 50 Faggots, the paneL included Lara Brooks, director of the Broadway Youth Center; Inc.; John Garver, anti-violence therapist and training deLivery manager at Center on Halsted; Jeff Levy, co-founder and CEO of Live Oak; and Sebastian Torres, coordinator of the office of LGBTQA student services at DePauL University.
Jenson streamed dips from his 50 Faggots film, a documentary that foLLows and showcases effeminate gay men in their queer, prafessionaL and personal Lives. The 50 Faggots clips provided a visual and tangible complement for the overall panel discussion for guest Zachary Stafford.
"I think having visuaL tools in discussions as hard and complicated as sexuaL assault is reaLLy important. It aLLows for assault to take a tangibLe form, and no Longer be abstract," said Stafford.
In particular, other topics addressed and explored by the paneL and audience were the stigma and shame sometimes associated with victims of sexuaL and domestic vioLence in gay ma Le communities, and as those factors relate to sexuaL roLes and attached gender norms. Jenson talked about how his preferred sexuaL role as a bottom is sometimes associated with femininity - making him a potentiaL target for domestic and sexuaL abuse, he said.
"One of the things that I think that happens a Lot i n sexuaL violence movements is that men are directly reLated to their penises," Jenson said. "Therefore, we rape. We penetrate. One of the things that I've aLways struggLed with on a personal LeveLis that being someone who is a bottom; my relationship with my penis is secondary. But in many discussions about sexuaL violence, I 'should' be thinking with my penis. I 'should' be operating in terms of wanting to penetrate something. So, I feel Like I'm aLways sort of at risk of being at vioLence."
Torres plugged into Jenson's correlation of sexuaL roLes and violence in gay male communities. Torres reaffirmed that it could be argued that gay males who identify as a bottom and/or effeminate could be more susceptible to domestic and sexuaL violence.
One of the dips from the 50 Faggots documentary incLuded an interview with a young man named Aaron. During the interview, Aaron shared with viewers his experiences of moving around a Lot with his mother and how she would take in foster children. Aaron recounts witnessing (at the age of 3) his older brothers, teenagers at the time, engaging in a sexuaL "gang bang" with one of his foster sisters, who was around 10.
Aaron also remembers one of his brothers pushing him down whiLe Aaron was trying to get his doLL - whiLe his other brothers were stiLL in the act. After pushing him down the stairs, his older brother waLked in front of Aaron and removed the condom from his penis, according to Aaron. Panel discussion guest John Carver found the image of Aaron going to retrieve his doLL whiLe his older brothers engage in such a sexuaL act especiaLLy intriguing.
"I find it interesting of how he merits the story of what was going on - not just that what couLd be conceived of as a gang bang going on but that he was on his way up to his room to get his do LL and then his brother came down and puLLed off a condom off his erect penis," said Garver. "There are so many messages in that one dip: this whoLe idea of witness and then his experience of survivorship and then the Levels of direct contact. There's no question in my mind that he is a survivor."
Brooks provided another perspective of the clip and revealed to guests her need and want for Aaron to express what he witnessed under what rea LLy happened.
Tm definitely having a hard time with the past dip in a different way in regards to common language," Brooks said. "I just wanted Aaron to say the word 'rape.' I kept watching it and watching it and watching it, and I needed him to say it. I couldn't believe he was taLking about it and not saying it in a way that I needed him to say it - it was rape."
Attendee Ryan Conrad shared with guests his personaL experience of domestic vioLence when he was thrown into a waLL while breaking up with his ex. Conrad said that he actually used humor to deal with the situation afterwards, referring to himseLf as just another domestic vioLence statistic.
"In the end I think this kind of event is reaLLy important because it's about building Larger networks of people who rea LLy engage in these kind of questions and topics that I didn't necessarily have when I experienced my moment of domestic vioLence when I was breaking up with my partner. I had to deal with a Lot of it on my own," said Conrad.
Jenson urged guests to openly discuss the issues of consent, accountability and problematic so da L stigmas of vioLence in gay maLe communities with others.

Subject: Conferences; Gays & lesbians; Sex crimes; Domestic violence; Victims of crime

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Jenson, Randall

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Panel discusses violence in gay male communities

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 28

Pages: 10

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: May 2, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1017540129

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/panel-discusses-violence-gay-male-communities/docview/1017540129/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 2, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Senate vote keeps LGBT protections in domestic-abuse bill

Author: Keen, Lisa

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/senate-vote-keeps-lgbt-protections-domestic-abuse/docview/1017540123/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: The [Kay Bailey Hutchison] -Grass Ley substitute form of VAWA removed the terms "sexuaL orientation" and "gender identity" from throughout the originaL VAWA reauthorization biLL. Hutchison argued that the substitute stiLL protected samesex coupLes by " neutra Lizi n g" Language referring to victims. She referred to "men who have been gang raped" as an example of such violence.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=28&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2012-05-02&amp;atitle=Senate+vote+keeps+LGBT+protections+in+domestic-abuse+bill&amp;au=Keen%2C+Lisa&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=28&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2012-05-02&amp;atitle=Senate+vote+keeps+LGBT+protections+in+domestic-abuse+bill&amp;au=Keen%2C+Lisa&amp;id=doi:

Full text: A casual Listener to U.S. Senate debate April 26 would not have heard the skirmish over protections for LGBT victims of domestic abuse. Despite reports that Republicans were upset over new Language in the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) that would protect LGBT people. Republicans never said so on the floor of the Senate.
However, Republicans Led an effort to replace the original VAWA reauthorization biLL with a substitute biLL that would have eliminated aLL protections for LGBT victims of domestic abuse.
That Republican substitute biLL was defeated ApriL 26 by a vote of 63-37.
The Senate then went on to approve the original VAWA reauthorization biLL 68-31.
The votes seemed to usher in a new era of Democratic support for incLuding protections and benefits for LGBT in Legislation, as weLL as a quieter yet more menacing tactic by RepubLicans to stop such protections by pitting them against children.
Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas, who introduced and co-authored the substitute biLL with Sen. CharLes GrassLey, R-Iowa, couched the RepubLican substitute as one that kept the "most important" parts of the originaL Legislation whiLe strengthening protections for chiLdren against sexuaL predators.
The Hutchison -Grass Ley substitute form of VAWA removed the terms "sexuaL orientation" and "gender identity" from throughout the originaL VAWA reauthorization biLL. Hutchison argued that the substitute stiLL protected samesex coupLes by " neutra Lizi n g" Language referring to victims. She referred to "men who have been gang raped" as an example of such violence.
The originaL version of this year's VAWA reauthorization biLL, approved onLy by Democrats on the Judiciary Committee and passed by the Senate ApriL 26, includes Language specifying that VAWA-funded programs not discriminate based on the sexuaL orientation or gender identity of a victim.
It also incLudes funding for "underserved" populations "who face barriers in accessing and using victim services because of geographic Location, reLigion, sexuaL orientation, gender identity, underserved raciaL and ethnic populations, populations underserved because of speda L needs (such as Language barriers, disabilities, alienage status, or age), and any other population determined to be underserved by the attorney generaL or by the Secretary of HeaLth and Human Services, as appropriate."
And it provides that certain grants under the Omnibus Crime ControL and Safe Streets Act can be used for "developing, enlarging, or strengthening programs and projects to provide services and responses targeting ma Le and femaLe victims of domestic vioLence, dating vioLence, sexuaL assauLt, or staLking, whose abiLity to access traditionaL services and responses is affected by their sexuaL orientation or gender identity."
The Hutchison -Grass Ley substitute biLL's provision concerning no n -discrimination included aLL categories of the originaL biLL except for sexuaL orientation and gender identity. It defined "underserved populations" the same as the originaL biLL except that it eLiminated those who face barriers due to reLigion, sexuaL orientation, and gender identity. And it gutted a section concerning grants by deleting Language concerning "maLe and femaLe victims. ..whose abiLity to access traditionaL services and responses is affected by their sexuaL orientation or gender identity."
Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, criticized the RepubLican substitute as undermining the "core principLes" of the originaL biLL. He said it "strips out key provisions to protect aLL victims ... incLuding victims in same-sex relationships."
Leahy was one of on Ly a few Democratic senators to taLk about specifìcaLLy about LGBT victims of domestic vioLence. Many others - incLuding those with large LGBT constituencies - did not.
Sen. CharLes Schumer, D-N.Y., complained about the Republican substitute biLL for taking out the word "women" and using the word "victim." Doing so, he noted, amounts to aboLishing VAWA and starting a who Le new program.
"No one here would argue that aLL vioLent crimes, aLL domestic crimes are tragic and serious, but this so-caLLed substitute negates centuries of women's experience that proves that vioLence against women - especiaLLy from spouses, partners and famiLy members - is a uniqueLy pernicious and entrenched practice."
Sen. Amy KLobuchar, D-Minn., mentioned "sexuaL orientation" but only in the context of noting that aLL peopLe can be victims of hightech stalking, such as p Lacing hidden cameras in hoteL rooms.
U.S. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid described two roadblocks to reauthorization of the VAWA as "non-discrimination protection for aLL victims, regardLess of what they Look Like or where they're from."
And Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-CaLif., criticized RepubLicans for wanting to "excLude peopLe" from protection, but her three exampLes of victims did not include an LGBT person.
But Sen. Richard B Lu ment h a L, D-Conn., did speak out strongly in support of Language incLuding LGBT victims of domestic abuse.
"CLearLy, there's a reaL need to improve access and availabiLity of services for this vuLnerabLe population," said BLumenthaL Thursday, "and I support measures in this act that ensure victims of domestic and sexuaL vioLence, regardLess of their sexuaL orientation or gender identity, can access those services they need."
Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., said he doesn't beLieve any of the "points of controversy" on the biLL were important enough to vote against reauthorization of the Law. He specifícaLLy mentioned protection should be availabLe to aLL victims "regardLess of gender."
VAWA (S. 1925) has been a popular piece of Legislation since 1994, when it was first passed. But this year, it has become a battLeground for the votes of women in the 2012 presidentiaL campaign and a battLe over protections for LGBT peopLe, Native Americans, and immigrant women without documentation to be in this country.
Rita Smith, executive director of the NationaL CoaLition Against Domestic VioLence, said the coaLition "cannot support any biLL that does not include language to protect vulnerable and under resources populations of victims of domestic violence, sexuaL assault and stalking."
"It is imperative that Native women, immigrant women, and the LGBTQ communities aLL have access to resources and support and S. 1925 incLudes criticaL services for these populations. No other biLL or amendment addresses these necessary changes to provide services for aLL victims."
Democrats see the biLL as a means of increasing protections for victims of domestic abuse; RepubLicans see it as an excuse to funneL federal funds to progressive groups, such as LGBT health clinics. They also claim the new provisions this year were added to make it hard for RepubLicans to support. GrassLey said the tactic was pure politics and meant to deflect attention away from "health care reform, unemployment or high gas prices."
A study by the NationaL CoaLition indicated that, in 2010, programs serving LGBT peopLe who were abused by their domestic partners or other intimate partners recorded 5,052 reports of such abuse. ALmost 45 percent of these victims reported being turned away by other groups heLping domestic vioLence victims.
The national coaLition includes a large number of groups working to prevent domestic vioLence and heLp its victims, incLuding the Community United Against VioLence (San Francisco), the Center on Halsted (Chicago), the Resource Center DaLlas, the Braward (FLa.) LGBT Domestic VioLence CoaLition, the San Diego LGBT Center, the L.A. Gay & Lesbian Center, the Fenway Community HeaLth VioLence Recovery Program (Boston), Wingspan (Arizona), United4Safety (Atlanta) and GLOV(D-C.).
Human Rights Campaign official David Stacy said the Hutchison -Grass Ley substitute was "not a serious attempt" to find a resolution and would jeopardize important funding to groups that do serve LGBT victims.
Supporters of VAWA had 61 senators going into the debate this week, incLuding both senators from ILLinois, CaLifornia and Massachusetts, as weLL as BiLL Nelson of Florida, Carl Levin of Michigan and Bob Casey of PennsyLvania. Neither of Texas' RepubLican senators co-sponsored the Legislation.
A spokeswoman for RepubLican presidential nominee-apparent Mitt Romney said last week that Romney supports the biLL but did not clarify whether he objects to the new language prohibiting discrimination based on sexuaL orientation or gender identity.
The VAWA in the House (HR 4271) has 52 cosponsors, including open Ly gay Reps. Barney Frank, D-Mass., and. Tammy Baldwin, D-Wis., but not openly gay Reps. Jared PoLis, D-CoLo., and David Cicaline, D-R. I. Debate in the House is also expected to be contentious, with House Majority Leader Eric Cantor reportedly pushing for a RepubLican version of the reauthorization measure there.
R. Clarke Cooper, executive director of Log Cabin RepubLicans, issued a statement, saying, "Nobody should be able to get away with domestic abuse just because their victim is gay, transgender, an immigrant or Native American, and nobody should be denied help in recovering from abuse. Standing in the way of passing this Legislation is unconscionable. Log Cabin RepubLicans are proud of our aLLies in the Senate who have cosponsored this biLL, incLuding Mike Crapo, RIdaho, who introduced the biLL, and Sens. Ayotte, R-N. H.; Brown, R-Mass.; CoLLins, R-Maine; HeLLer, R-Nev.; Kirk, R-ILL., Murkowski, R-Alaska; and Snowe, R-Maine. Passage of S. 1925 should move forward swiftly, and any effort to water down the VioLence Against Women Act should be roundLy condemned."
©2012 by Keen News Service. ALL rights reserved.
AuthorAffiliation BY LISA KEEN
KEENNEWSSERVICE

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Bills; Victims of crime; Domestic violence

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Senate-US; NAICS: 921120

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Senate vote keeps LGBT protections in domestic-abuse bill

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 28

Pages: 6

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: May 2, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1017540123

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/senate-vote-keeps-lgbt-protections-domestic-abuse/docview/10 17540123/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 2, 2012

Last updated: 2024-08-29

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

LGBT, HIV/AIDS groups among Cubs grantees

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lgbt-hiv-aids-groups-among-cubs-grantees/docview/1017540074/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: 'Today's Cubs Care grant Luncheon is about empowering non-profit organizations in Chicago and providing the necessary resources to help communities in need," said Cubs owner and board member Laura Ricketts, who serves as chair of the board of Chicago Cubs Charities.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=28&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=30&amp;date=2012-05-02&amp;atitle=LGBT%2C+HIV%2FAIDS+groups+among+Cubs+grantees&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=28&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=30&amp;date=2012-05-02&amp;atitle=LGBT%2C+HIV%2FAIDS+groups+among+Cubs+grantees&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Local LGBT and HIV/AIDS agencies such as Center on Halsted, Alexian Brothers Bonaventure House and Chicago House are among the Local nonprofit organizations receiving more than $1 million in grants from Cubs Care and Chicago Cubs Charities.
The Chicago Cubs teamed with the Robert R. McCormick Foundation to make the recent announcement. This marks the eighth consecutive year more than $1 miLLion has been donated to Chicago communities through Cubs Care, a McCormick Foundation Fund.
'Today's Cubs Care grant Luncheon is about empowering non-profit organizations in Chicago and providing the necessary resources to help communities in need," said Cubs owner and board member Laura Ricketts, who serves as chair of the board of Chicago Cubs Charities.
Among the other 49 groups receiving grants are the Black Ensemble Theater, YWCA of MetropoLitan Chicago, the Peggy Notebaert Nature Museum, Children's Memorial HospitaL, Night Ministry, the Domestic VioLence LegaL Clinic and Mujeres Latinas en Acción.

Subject: Nonprofit organizations; Grants

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Chicago Cubs; NAICS: 711211; Name: Alexian Brothers; NAICS: 813110

Identifier/ keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: LGBT, HIV/AIDS groups among Cubs grantees

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 28

Pages: 30

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: May 2, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 1017540074

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lgbt-hiv-aids-groups-among-cubs-grantees/docview/1017540074/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 2, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

calendar Q

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calendar-q/docview/1015273450/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Woman Made Gallery's 20th Anniversary WMG's rich exhibition history includes domestic violence, breast cancer, war related issues, and religious subjects. One of the works, Mary Ellen Croteau's "Women on a Pedestal," is now in WMG's permanent collection. Will honor Co-Founder/Executive Director, Beate Minkovski. $65 prepaid or $75 at the door; 6pm-9:30pm, 312-738-0400, Salvage One, 1840 West Hubbard St., www.womanmade.org

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=26&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=28&amp;date=2012-04-18&amp;atitle=calendar+Q&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=26&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=28&amp;date=2012-04-18&amp;atitle=calendar+Q&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Wed., April 8
Screaming Queens: The Riot at Compton's Cafeteria screening Discussion of Susan Stryker's documentary to follow; 5pm, Kresge 2-321, 1880 Campus Dr., Evanston, www.northwestern.edu
Fashion and Philanthropy Saks Fifth Avenue will host a benefit for Center on Halsted featuring a fashion presentation by Eric Jennings, Vice President, Fashion Director for Menswear. Cocktails, ors d'oeuvres, latest fashion trends. Saks Fifth Avenue will donate 10 percent of the sales up to $5,000. Space is limited. R.S.V.P. a must: to jkosior@centeronhalsted.org. 6pm-8pm, Saks Fifth Avenue Men's Store, 717 N. Michigan Ave., 2nd Floor
Queen Bea: A Salute to Beatrice Arthur The late Beatrice Arthur, better known as Maude and Dorothy Zbornek from the Golden Girls was also a Tony Award winning musical theater star. Tickets: $25; 7:30pm, 312.742.TIXS, Maxim's, the Nancy Goldberg International Center, 24 East Goethe St., Chicago, https://secure.ticketsage.net/login.aspx
$1 Drink Night Join SPIN every Wednesday for $1 Cocktails, featuring 42 Below Vodka, Wine & Beer and $5 Bacardi Bombs! DJ's Riley York, Bryan, Dominic and Chester SPIN their two dance floors until 2am; 9pm, Spin Nightclub, 800 W. Belmont Ave., www.spin-nightclub.com
GL Chamber of Commerce Mega Connect Networking Breakfast This massive speed networking event is done in partnership with 14 other Chambers to create an amazing morning. 7:30am-9:30pm, Holiday Inn North Shore, 5300 W. Touhy Avenue, Skokie, http://www.glchamber.org
Thursday, April 19
SAIC Fashion 2012 and The Walk Taking place for the second consecutive year against the backdrop of beautiful Millennium Park, Chase Promenade, this year's fashion show-featuring more than 300 garments from SAIC's Fashion Design BFA candidates showcased by more than 70 professional models from Factor Runway-will be the largest ever. 12pm-10pm, Millennium Park, 201 E. Randolph St., www.saic.edu/degrees_resources/departments/fash/index.html#fash_show
Generations Gala Planned Parenthood of Illinois to host Generations Gala featuring Joan Walsh, Editor At Large for Salon, com and MSNBC Political Analyst, to speak about current state of women's health care; 6pm-9pm, Fairmont Chicago, Millennium Park, www.ppil.org/generations
Howard Brown's Spring Forward Cocktail Party As a thank-you for ongoing support, join Howard Brown Health Center for an evening of free food and drink and live DJ music RSVP to www.howardbrown.org/springforward, as space is very limited. 6pm-9pm, Downtown Bar, 440 N. State, www.howardbrown.org/springforward
Jomama Jones: Radiate Produced by Jane M. Saks. Legendary expatriate performer Jomama Jones presents an intimate concert version of her sold-out smash show, accompanied by her collaborator and musical director, Bobby Halvorson, to perform songs from her CDs Lone Star, Radiate and the upcoming EP Six Ways Home while sharing surprising observations of the America to which she has returned. Through April 21. 7:30pm, Victory Gardens Theater, 2257 N. Lincoln Ave., www.colum.edu/institutewomengender
Girl You Know It's True When Bixby, a 40-ish playwright fails to get his work produced he conjures up a radical new identity for himself: an impostor. His stand in - an African American Lesbian woman in a wheelchair - instantly shoots to fame. 7:30pm-9pm, 773-789-8093, Chopin Theatre, 1543 W Division St., pavementgroup.org
Windy City Gay Idol Windy City Gay Idol continues the search for the best amateur LGBT singers. 8pm singer sign up. 9pm, Crew, 4804 N. Broadway, www.windyritymediagroup.com/lgbt/windy-city-gay-idol-kicks-off-10th-year-/36745.html
Steampunk Thursdays Elate is taking its eco-friendly philosophy to new heights, on Thursdays, by re-inventing itself as the Steampunk center of Chicago. 9:30pm, 312-202-9900, Elate, 111 W Huron St., www.elatechicago.com
Friday, April 20
Who's Bad - The Ultimate Michael Jackson Tribute All the thrills of Michael Jackson's live show in musicianship and choreography, wth songs dating from MJ's childhood to his reign as King of the Pop Jungle. 1:30pm, 708-388-8881, 115 Bourbon St., Merrionette Park, www.115bourbonstreet.com
Break the Silence! 2012 Night of Noise On the evening of the Day of Silence, join 450+ LGBTQ and Ally youth to collectively break the silence, speak out about Day of Silence experience, and celebrate the LGBTQ youth community. Youth will speak and perform poetry and dance and then dance the night away with a DJ. iman@illinoissafeschools.org for more info. 5:30pm, Thompson Center Plaza, 100 W Randolph St.
Woman Made Gallery's 20th Anniversary WMG's rich exhibition history includes domestic violence, breast cancer, war related issues, and religious subjects. One of the works, Mary Ellen Croteau's "Women on a Pedestal," is now in WMG's permanent collection. Will honor Co-Founder/Executive Director, Beate Minkovski. $65 prepaid or $75 at the door; 6pm-9:30pm, 312-738-0400, Salvage One, 1840 West Hubbard St., www.womanmade.org
Equality Illinois Ladies' Night Looking to start the weekend right? Then don't miss the ladies' night social, coming to you at Parlour on Clark! A $10 donation to EQIL gets you two cocktails! RSVP to info@eqil.org. 8pm-10pm, Parlour on Clark, 6341 N Clark, Chicago, http://www.eqil.org
Alex In Wonderland Alex In Wonderland continues MidTangenfs dedication to bringing original works with a familiar twist to the Chicago LGBTQ community, providing once again the chance to relive your childhood with stories that are close to your heart, told the way you've always wanted. 9pm-10pm, Hydrate, 3458 N. Halsted St., www.hydratechicago.com; Tickets: http://midtangent.tix.com/event.asp?event-452247
Saturday, April 21
Mark Zubro - Author Reading Chicago's premier gay mystery writer, Mark Zubro, will be reading from Black and Blue and Pretty Dead, Too his gay leather mystery novel 2pm-3pm, 773-761-9200, Leather Archives & Museum, 6418 N. Greenview Ave., www.leatherarchives.org
Against Equality Collective's book launch Anthology "Against Equality: Don't Ask to Fight Their Wars!" For details, contact nairyasmin@gmail.com; 11am-2pm, Brunchluck, Mess Hall, 6932 N. Glenwood Ave.
Ashley Morgan Birthday Show: Toasting The Showgirl Join the "Call Girls" along with Ashley Morgan's friends from The Chicago Spirit Brigade as they bring you a show honoring the birthday girl and benefiting Pediatric AIDS Chicago Prevention Initiative. There $5 suggested donation; 9:30pm, The Call (Chicago), 1547 W. Bryn Mawr Ave.
Cassidy and Steans hosting Earth Day Action During Earth Day clean-up, residents will be able to help mulch trees, pick up trash, and beautify Touhy Park. After the clean up, participants are welcome to enjoy pizza, face painting, and other fun activities. State Rep. Cassidy and state Sen. Heather Steans are co-hosting with the Touhy Park Advisory CounciL Info at 773-784-2002. 11am-1pm, Touhy Park, 7348 N. Paulina Ave.
Chicago League of Lady Arm Wrestlers (CLLAW) XIII Generation of wrestlers battle against returning veterans for the coveted CLLAW sash and crown. See the theatrical fundraising experience Penthouse Magazine calls "one hell of a show!" three-hour open bar package and $25 tickets available for online pre-sale. Proceeds benefit Sideshow Theatre Company and "Erasing the Distance". $10 tickets will be available at the door for cash bar only. 10pm, O'Malley's Liquor Kitchen, 3551 N. Sheffield Ave., www.cllaw.org
Nathan Lane and Brian Dennehy in Goodman's Iceman Cometh Tickets on sale by web and phone. Price range ($53- $119) is subject to change. Luxury Ticket Package includes a contribution to the theater, access to house seats, use of the patrons' lounge private bar, etc. Runs through June 10. 11:45pm, 312-443-3800, Goodman Theatre, 170 N Dearborn St., www.goodman theatre.org
2012 Chicago Red Dress Party The Voice's Beverly McClellan will perform at the 2nd Annual Chicago Red Dress Party 2012. Dress for the fight, End AIDS. 8pm, Joffrey Ballet Studios, 10 E. Randolph St., www.chicagoreddressparty.org
Sunday, April 22
Urban Village Church: Andersonville service Andersonville is a neighborhood full of passion, art, diversity, and eclectic energy, all which makes Urban Village Church thrilled to be joining the community! 10:30am-11:45am, 1602 W. Ainslie (at Ashland), www.newchicagochurch.com
Urban Village Church Spiritual worship is about coming together as community to make space for God to move in us. 10:15am-11:30am, Urban Village Church, Spertus Institute, 610 S. Michigan Ave., www.urbanvillagechurch.org
Taverna 750 First Call Brunch Come sample the amazing food and drink of Taverna 750. Spruce up your Sunday as Taverna 750 unveils its tasty creations and wonderful libations. $20 packages to meet your Sunday Brunch goals! 11am-2pm, Taverna 750, 750 W. Cornelia Ave.
Imerman Angels presents Spring Launch What's Your Date Campaign, recognizing the celebrations, anniversaries, tributes and memorials that dot our collective calendar and have affected all of our cancer fighters, survivors, and caregivers. 4pm-8pm, Moe's Cantina, 155 W. Kinzie St., www.iaspringlaunch.eventbrite.com.
Monday, April 23
FUELING THE FLARE-a benefit for Cyon After a recent home break-in, community icon Cyon Flare is in need of a few items that were stolen. Join friends and supporters in this effort to help replace the essential tools to continue his valued community outreach. $10 suggested donation provides you with a drink ticket and door prize entry. 6pm-8pm, Sidetrack, 3349 N. Halsted St., www.facebook.com/ events/267583909999081/
Drag Race with Frida Lay Chicago's only amateur drag contest, hosted by Frida Lay! A hit at Roscoe's since its premier in 2000. 10pm, Roscoe's, 3356 N. Halsted St., www.roscoes.com
Tuesday, April 24
Making the Most of the Distressed Property Market Learn how to use pre-tax investment dollars in a buyers' market, how to buy distressed properties like short sales and forclosures. Learn the differences between short sales, foreclosures and "being underwater." 6:30pm, Center on Halsted, 3656 N Halsted St., http://cohdistressedpropertymarket.eventbrite.com
Wed., April 25
Equality Illinois' annual lobby day Lobby our legislators for passage of the Illinois Religious Freedom and Marriage Fairness Act. 7am, Illinois State House, Springfield, www.eqil.org
A Modern Bon Foster An evening that celebrates the progress of our modern civil-rights movement. 6:30pm program, 6:45 pm buffet reception, open bar. Tickets: $150, VIP $250, sponsorships at $500+; 6pm, 312-663-4413, The Art Institute of Chicago, 111 S. Michigan Ave., Tickets: http://www.lambdalegal.org/bonfoster
Sidebar KEEPING UP WITH THE JONES
Thursday-Saturday, April 19-21
The force of nature known as Jomama Jones will perform at Victory Gardens Theater, 2257 N. Lincoln Ave.
'NIGHT' FEVER
Friday, April 20
The 2012 Night of Noise will take place at the Thompson Center in the Loop.
Sidebar MAKING HIS MARK
Saturday, April 21
Gay mystery wnter Mark Zubro will read from his works at Leather Archives & Museum, 6418 N. Greenview Ave.
Sidebar Get calendar online
Q: WindyCityMediaGroup.com ChicagoPride.com

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: calendar Q

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 26

Pages: 28

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Apr 18, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 1015273450

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calendar-q/docview/1015273450/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Apr 18, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Queer Bronzeville: A History of African American LGBTs on Chicago's South Side, 1900-1985

Author: Cabello, Tristan

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/queer-bronzeville-history-african-american-lgbts/docview/1011085994/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Jet was more explicit regarding its queer subjects. In articles about drag baLLs, reporters used direct terms to describe the participants' sexuality. The words "gay" and "queen" were preferred terminology. Competitors were part of a "gay affair" which presented "gay entertainment." Men pranced "gaily down the runway," or the MC would elect the "queen of queens," making "queen Ly bows."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=25&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=36&amp;date=2012-03-28&amp;atitle=Queer+Bronzeville%3A+A+History+of+African+American+LGBTs+on+Chicago%27s+South+Side%2C+1900-1985&amp;au=Cabello%2C+Tristan&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=25&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=36&amp;date=2012-03-28&amp;atitle=Queer+Bronzeville%3A+A+History+of+African+American+LGBTs+on+Chicago%27s+South+Side%2C+1900-1985&amp;au=Cabello%2C+Tristan&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Headnote Part III: Constructing Black Homosexuality on Chicago's South Side: The Black Press, Queer Identities, and the Civil Rights Movement, 1950-1965
This is the third of a multi -part series.
During the 1950s, Chicago's most important BLack publications redefined African American sexuality and acceptable sexual behavior in Black communities. An original discourse aimed at explaining the limits of certain sexuaL behaviors was created. Beginning in 1952, Ebony, Jet and the Defender engaged in a discursive shift describing homosexual behavior as a contradiction to the values of Black society.
In the 1950s, important figures in African American music and Literature did not hide their homosexual identity. James Baldwin publicly acknowledged his homosexuality. In 1953, Bayard Rustin spent 60 days in prison for "consensual sodomy," which was at the time a crime in the State of California.
Queer African American culture was popular in working-class BLack neighborhoods. In Detroit, the Paradise Valley, a local gay club, held drag shows which brought in the country's most popular drag gueens, such as Janis L Cava, Baby Jean Ray, Zorina La Crosse and Caledonia Anderson. In New Orleans, the most popuLar drag gueen was "Princess Lavonne," and would come to be known as Little Richard in the late 1950s.
Around the country. Black Americans were organizing and rising up against racial discrimination. In this struggle for civil rights, access to full citizenship was at the very heart of activists' concerns and would lead to many shifts in African American identity. Access to full citizenship regulated the ideal image of the Black American community. It set out acceptable norms for social behavior, including sexual behavior. Homosexuals were criticized by Leaders in the struggle for civil rights, who saw them as hurdles to full citizenship for African Americans.
During the early 1950s, queer festivities in Chicago's Black neighborhoods reached their hour of glory.
Eddie Phlique continued to host fashion shows at the Show Lounge Easter on Sunday; the mayor of Bronzeville continued to crown the Queen of the Night at drag baLLs; the Roberts Show Lounge housed the largest U.S. drag queen troupe, the JeweL Box Revue; and the Defender begged Joe Hughes to return to the nightlife. Drag balls organized by Jerry "Talent Scout" Jones at the Casino Moderne officially opened their doors to male cross-dressers. Reverend Clarence Cobbs was publicly a friend of queer DJ Eddie Phlique.
The Defender always dedicated a Large part of its publication to queer events taking place. In the early 1950s, it published a two-page article about drag balls, the longest coverage of the events since the newspaper's creation. In "Boy Meets 'Girls' at Hallowe'en BaLL," published Nov. 10, 1951, the Defender described a drag ball, complete with five large photographs of drag couples, drag queens on stage, and men dancing with female impersonators. That year, the event had brought 5,000 people to the Pershing BaLLroom. The 1952 edition was also described in detail in a Defender article, along with four large photographs. The reporter still noted the "interracial" nature of the event.
Tasked with relaying important events in the BLack community, Jet and Ebony naturally relied on the news from queer sources, particularly in Chicago. In Ebony Magazine, articles on homosexual behavior mainly focused on entertainment, drag balls, and female impersonator shows. Jet's editorial board gave a special pLace to news briefs, allowing the magazine to add, for example, reports of domestic violence in homosexual couples, in the section entitled "Mr. and Mrs." These articles did not mention homosexuality openly. They did, however, create a discourse on BLack sexuality, reflecting the middle class's morality and desire to counteract the visibility of homosexuality in Large cities.
When describing homosexuals, Ebony and Jet implicitly confirmed dominant discourses; homosexuals were not living in line with their gender identity. Queer men presented feminine characteristics, and homosexual women presented masculine traits.
Reporters from both publications were not at a Loss for examples. Thus, Beatrice Calloway, a Detroit lesbian who killed her Lover because the Lover had fallen in love with another woman, stated that her rival wore "pants, a rumpled shirt, and men's shoes."
Ebony emphasized female impersonators' feminine traits, which were described in articles on drag balls. The editors reminded readers that "the female impersonators were often more feminine than real women, but many more were merely grotesque caricatures of femininity." The process of feminization was often highlighted, with reporters noting that participants had to shave and wear makeup, stating that a femaLe impersonator had a tough job because "walking in high heels" was a hard task, as was "making sure that fake breasts did not fall out." At no time, however, did reporters from Ebony or Jet explicitly reference the "abnormality" of this behavior.
Ebony Magazine never mentioned queer subjects' sexual preferences when reporting artistic performances and activities. Ebony refused to categorize those who were present at drag baLLs. Photographs suggested that at the dances, hugging and kissing were innocent.
Jet was more explicit regarding its queer subjects. In articles about drag baLLs, reporters used direct terms to describe the participants' sexuality. The words "gay" and "queen" were preferred terminology. Competitors were part of a "gay affair" which presented "gay entertainment." Men pranced "gaily down the runway," or the MC would elect the "queen of queens," making "queen Ly bows."
In order to access full citizenship, Blacks had to accept the societal norms created by white communities, in order to acquire the "traits highly regarded by white Americans." This campaign to regulate sexual behaviors began during the 1950s, and was Led by political and religious Leaders. Adam Clayton Powell published an article entitled "Sex in the Church" in Ebony Magazine, in which he described unacceptable sexual behavior in the Black clergy. Powell particularly criticized the relationship that Prophet Jones of Detroit maintained with his assistant.
Beginning in 1953, Jet and Ebony Magazine' editorials began to reflect these shifts in discourse. The editorial coverage of drag balls disappeared from the magazine's columns in 1953. In 1954, Jet redefined these popular events in an article entitled "The Truth about Female Impersonators," describing them as the "obscure causes of homosexuality."
The first step of this campaign was seen in an articLe about the life of a famous lesbian, BLues singer Gladys Bentley, who claimed to have been "cured" of her homosexuality.
If Ebony Magazine's message was confusing during this stage of the campaign, the shift in discourse toward criminalization and the perception of homosexuality as a medical issue was already evident. In an August 1952 article entitled "I am a Woman Again," Bentley told Ebony Magazine readers about "how she found happiness again after a medical treatment to correct her strange condition." Indeed, Bentley stated, "For many years, she had Lived a personal hell," a sort of "no man's land, a dark place that existed between the limits of the two sexes."
For the first time in the magazine's history, the article analyzed the psychology of the homosexual individual, described as "mentally ill, suffering deeply."
In October 1953, Ebony Magazine published the story of Georgia Black, a female impersonator who had recently passed away in Florida. According to Ebony, Georgia Black was an African American woman who should have died "humiliated and in disgrace" as a "pervert, a sissy, a monster." Black had lived as a woman for nearly 30 years, fooling everyone around her, as she was actually a man.
Georgia Black's adopted son, Willie Saab, published his version of his mother's biography in an article entitled "My Mother was a Man" in the November 1953 Ebony. Saab described his mother as "a generous soul, who always came to the aid of others," who "worked tirelessly in her church," and who "always followed the law," but emphasized his feminine attributes.
In August 1953, Ebony published "The Woman Who Lived as a Man for Fifteen Years," which described the Life of an African American woman in Ohio who had Lived as a man for 15 years, and was Less sympathetic than the article about Georgia Black. Throughout the article, Jim, in contrast to Georgia, was described as a criminal. Jim had carried out many affairs with women, was engaged to a woman he had met in high school, and became the "deacon" of the Kosciusko church. He had moved from town to town, hiding his identity, smoking cigarettes, speaking Like a man, and holding "male" jobs such as a taxi driver, cook, fireman, and preacher. The residents of Kosciusko were profoundly shocked by the entire affair, and particularly angry with the preacher who appeared to be aware of Jim's identity.
On the first page of its Feb. 16, 1957 edition, the Defender announced a series of articles about the "third sex," in which the newspaper cast aside its Longstanding relationship with BronzeviLLe's queer community and female impersonators, and redefined homosexuality, describing it as a medical phenomenon that was both obscure and foreign.
In the first article of the series, the Defender ignored the newspaper's long historic relationship with the South Side queer and female impersonator community, as well as the multitude of articles on African American drag queens from New York, Chicago, and Detroit that had appeared in the publication since its creation. The first article emphasized the "novelty" of this topic for the newspaper. The first article laid out the history of homosexuality. Following a brief discussion of the Biblical story of Sodom and Gomorrah, the article focused on Greek and Roman history.
Encouraged by very positive letters from its readership, the Defender published the second article in the series, in which it defined homosexuality as a psychological condition exclusive to whites. The article concentrated mainly on homosexual personalities and reiterated the idea of homosexuality as an obscure affliction. The main example, Oscar Wilde, was used to support Alfred Duckett's theory of a psychological disease. [Duckett was a Chicago Defender journalist who wrote the series on the 'Third Sex".] According to Duckett, Wilde had become a homosexual only after the age of 35, following an unhappy marriage and attempting to escape the domination of his overbearing mother throughout his life. Homosexuality was therefore seen as the result of a traumatic situation with one's mother, or a romantic disappointment with a person of the opposite sex. No African American gay man was included in this description.
The third article also focused on prisons reinforcing the idea that homosexuality was a result of a specific environment. Prison was a place of transformation, where heterosexuals became homosexuals. Duckett's main source was Haywood Patterson's book, Scottsboro Boy (1950), which detailed his stay in prison. Patterson's book proved that one could find "gal boys" and "wolves" (masculine men) who "engaged in amorous relations, and that some even married." Prisons encouraged homosexuality by pairing off possible partners. "Wolves" protected the young boys; young queers prostituted themselves. According to Patterson, 50% of all incarcerated African Americans and 75% of all incarcerated whites were "gal-boys."
The fourth article was entirely dedicated to the history of lesbians, and placed them in another category, which was "twice the size of the male homosexual population." The article informed its readers that lesbians, often "frigid in heterosexual relationships," married men who were homosexuals, and that "some were African Americans." Gladys Bentley^ story was recounted in detail; highlighting the problems she faced, particularly regarding the failure of her transition therapy.
While African American gays continued to organize queer events and be visible in Bronzeville's bars, a change in discourse on homosexuality was beginning to take root in Chicago's Black press.
Homosexuality came to be seen as a medical and psychological problem, alien to African American communities. Homosexuals were thus marginalized. Not only were homosexuals viewed as mentally ill, but also they could be cured with psychotherapy.
With this new definition, Black homosexuals would have to struggle to be respected during the 1960s, after a period of wide acceptance.
Sidebar Jet Magazine Aug. 7, 1952, "Is There Hope for Homosexuals?"
"Kiss for loveliest female male" was published in Jet magazine Dec. 11, 1952, page 26.
Jet Magazine, April 15, 1954, "Are Homosexuals Becoming Respectable?"
In August 1T53, Ebony published "The Woman Who Lived as a Man for Fifteen Years."
Georgia Black's adopted son, Willie Saab, published his version of his mother's biography in an article entitled "My Mother was a Man," Ebony, November 1953.
Gladys Bentley renounces her homosexuality in an August 1T52 Ebony article entitled "I am a Woman Again."
AuthorAffiliation Tristan Cabello is the Andrew W. Mellon Postdoctoral Fellow in African American Studies at Bowdoin College. He is currently completing his first book Queer Bronzeville: Race, Sexuality and Urban Boundaries in Black Chicago, 1900-1985. His exhibit "Queer Bronzeville' is available on the Website www. outhistory.org . Tristan can be reached at tcabello@bowdoin.edu.

Subject: Impersonations; Gays & lesbians; Fashion; African Americans; Citizenship

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Queer Bronzeville: A History of African American LGBTs on Chicago's South Side, 1900-1985

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 25

Pages: 36-37

Number of pages: 2

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Mar 28, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1011085994

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/queer-bronzeville-history-african-american-lgbts/docview/1011085994/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 28, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Taking "Action"

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/taking-action/docview/1011085758/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Awards were presented to those who have made a concerted effort in overcoming domestic violence over the past year. The Civic Advocacy Award was presented to Cook County State's Attorney Anita Alvarez & WBEZ 91.5FM/Vocalo. org 89. 5FM for their efforts in raising awareness and providing education about violence against women.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=25&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=38&amp;date=2012-03-28&amp;atitle=Taking+%22Action%22&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=25&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=38&amp;date=2012-03-28&amp;atitle=Taking+%22Action%22&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: The Chicago Metropolitan Battered Women's Network hosted its 2012 "Chicago Chefs Spring Into Action" benefit March 22 at the Renaissance Blackstone Hotel.
Many of Chicago's top chefs served dishes, complemented by sommeliers and mixologists. ALpana Singh, master sommelier and host of the WTTW program Check PLease, served as master of ceremonies. There were also silent and Live auctions.
Among the many chefs who participated were Celeste ZeccoLa of Bittersweet Pastry Shop; Cory Morris of Mercat a La PLa nxa; Terry Opa Lek and Michael Frontier of Terry's Toffee; and Kore ? Grieveson of avec.
Awards were presented to those who have made a concerted effort in overcoming domestic violence over the past year. The Civic Advocacy Award was presented to Cook County State's Attorney Anita Alvarez & WBEZ 91.5FM/Vocalo. org 89. 5FM for their efforts in raising awareness and providing education about violence against women. Kathy Doherty - executive director of Between Friends, a domestic-violence service organization - received the Community Advocate Award for her many years of dedicated Leadership focused on breaking the cycle of domestic violence and building a community free from abuse.
More information about the network is at www.batteredwomensnetwork.org.
Photo by Christina Frances Photography

Subject: Domestic violence; Special events; Chefs; Awards & honors

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Taking "Action"

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 25

Pages: 38

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Mar 28, 2012

Section: the DISH

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1011085758

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/taking-action/docview/1011085758/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 28, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Judge Mary Trew

Author: Demarest, Erica

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/judge-mary-trew/docview/962441186/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: What's a LittLe bit difficuLt is that bans on discrimination don't come from the top-down. In other words, it's going from state-to-state. So that does make it chaLLenging. It's not just the marriage Laws; its aLL the civil area Laws.... the right to traveL, the right to reLocate. One state's Laws might be very discriminatory, and another's not so much. Other minority groups have had that [protection] at a federal Level.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=23&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2012-03-14&amp;atitle=Judge+Mary+Trew&amp;au=Demarest%2C+Erica&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=23&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2012-03-14&amp;atitle=Judge+Mary+Trew&amp;au=Demarest%2C+Erica&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Headnote ELECTIONS' 12:
In October 2010- just eight months after Losing a Democratic primary in the same district - Mary Trew was appointed judge of the 9th Subcircuit by the Illinois Supreme Court.
"Ive been trying to do this [become a judge] for 13 years and, all of a sudden, it just popped," Trew said at the time.
The Longtime Lawyer and out Lesbian has since presided over an area that incLudes Evanston, NiLes, Skokie, LincoLnwood and Rogers Park. On March 20, Trew wiLL face three chaLLengers in a primary race to hold onto her seat for another six years.
Windy City Times caught up with Trew to discuss her new career, busy civiL union scheduLe and prospects for 2012.
Windy City Times: Can you tell us how you got started in law?
Mary Trew: My entire background has been in pub Lie interest Law. I started out as a pub Lie defender in Detroit. [When I moved to] Chicago, I worked for an agency caLLed the Domestic Violence LegaL CLinic, where I uLtimateLy became executive director. That agency provides services for victims of domestic vioLence, as weLL as other family Law services Like orders of protection, divorces, and custody help.
In my role as executive director, we started one of the nation's first on-site court cLinics in the domestic vioLence courthouse. My whoLe career has been about providing services to poor peopLe. I didn't enter Law to make money, because I never did. [Laughs] My reason was to increase access to Legal services and a [Leviate the injustices in the world. There's a Lot of [injustice] stiLL, but I see a LittLe bit of a difference.
Ifs been a 30-year career; I hate to say it. [Laughs] Time fties.
WCT: And did you work at the Domestic VioLence LegaL CLinic right up until you were appointed judge?
MT: Yes. When I first got appointed, I was in traffic court Like everyone else. After about three months, I got promoted to the domestic relations division. I'm in custody and parentage court, which is a speciaLized court deaLing with children and peopLe who aren't married to each other, essentially. Ifs a pretty good match for my background.
WCT: You've said in earlier interviews that you wanted to be a judge even more than a lawyer. Does that still stand up?
MT: Oh, absoLutely. One of the things I had feared when I first became a judge was: What if I don't Like this after aLL this time? [Laughs] It is a LittLe scary at first, when you first take the bench. Everybody's Looking at you, and you're in charge. But I was Like a duck to water. My sense that this was something I wanted to do and would be good at is bearing out. I just Love it.
WCT: Any exciting moments so far?
MT: I performed a Lot of the civil unions when [the CiviL Unions Act] first went into Law Last year. I've probably done about 60 or 70 of them. It's really a nice feeLing to be abLe to do that. As a judge, I do so many things that make peopLe mad or make one person mad. So it's reaLLy nice to do something that makes peopLe happy.
And my partner and I got civi L- unionized, or whatever you want to caLL it, in December. We've been together 15 years.
WCT: Do you think there are any areas of the law where LGBT people are particularly discriminated against?
MT: Whaf s a LittLe bit difficuLt is aLL the hodgepodge of state-to-state Laws. It's pretty exciting for someone of my generation - I'm 56 - to see aLL the change that's come in the Last 5-10 years, which I regard as being kind of generational·. I think young peopLe are causing it to happen. There's a reaL divide for gay peopLe between generations.
What's a LittLe bit difficuLt is that bans on discrimination don't come from the top-down. In other words, it's going from state-to-state. So that does make it chaLLenging. It's not just the marriage Laws; its aLL the civil area Laws.... the right to traveL, the right to reLocate. One state's Laws might be very discriminatory, and another's not so much. Other minority groups have had that [protection] at a federal Level. I think ultimateLy that will happen for us; it just takes time.
I've seen a change in how courts and judges react to LGBT peopLe; it's gotten much, much better... at Least in [Cook] County.
WCT: How so?
MT: Just an attitude, reaLLy. Ifs compLetely different. When I was much younger, there was a great deaL of ridicule in the court system for anybody who was gay or perceived to be. It's changed remarkably in the Last few years. And I'm not saying the discrimination isn't' still there. Of course it is. But it's not so institutionalized.
WCT: There are four candidates in your primary. What sets you apart from the rest?
MT: We're aLL good peopLe. What makes me a LittLe different is that I was appointed by the Supreme Court. I've been endorsed by organizations - not politicians or anything to do with politics. I was endorsed by the Chicago tribune; and I was found qualified, recommended, or highly recommended by all of the evaluating Law firms.
I was endorsed, appointed and vetted by peopLe in the know. You hear repeatedLy from voters that they don't know who the judicial candidates are. WeLL, the Supreme Court knows who they want to put as judge. The Tribune, the bar associations - I've been through a reaLLy Lengthy and excruciating vetting process by aLL those entities. Those peopLe have given me a "thumbs up," so I'm hoping the voters wiLL, too.
To learn more about Mary Trew, visit www. votetrew.com.

Subject: Judges & magistrates; Political appointments; Judiciary; Careers

Business indexing term: Subject: Careers

Location: Illinois; United States--US

People: Trew, Mary

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Judge Mary Trew

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 23

Pages: 16

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Mar 14, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 962441186

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/judge-mary-trew/docview/962441186/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 14, 2012

Lastupdated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

calendar q

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calendar-q/docview/962441038/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: The Orion Ensemble, Celebrating Women Composers In honor of Women's History Month in March, The Orion Ensemble will be "Celebrating Women Composers" of three centuries, four countries and four distinct styles: Chicago-based composer Stacy Garrop's Silver Dagger for Violin, Cello and Piano (2009); Louise Farreni^s Trio in ?-flat Major for Clarinet, CeIb and Piano, Op. 44; British composer Phyllis Täte's (1911-85) Air and Variations for Clarinet, Violin and Piano (1957); and Piano...

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=23&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=52&amp;date=2012-03-14&amp;atitle=calendar+q&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=23&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=52&amp;date=2012-03-14&amp;atitle=calendar+q&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Wed., March 14
Chicago Flower and Garden Show This isn't your grandmother's flower show. While if s still all about the plants, there's much more to do, see, learn and experience than ever before. With the theme, "Hort Couture," more than 25 featured display gardens take their cues on style and beauty from the incredible designs, colors, textures and fabrics found in highfashion couture garments. Through March 18. 10am-8pm, 312-595-5400, Navy Pier, 600 E Grand Ave., www.chicagoflower.com
Building Effective Adult Allies For Youth Adult ally, youth workers, speaker Khadine Bennett, staff attorney and legislative counsel ACLU of Illinois in an informational session (bring a bagged lunch) on the Parental Notification Act in Illinois and how you can be an effective adult ally for young people experiencing barriers - due to Parental Notification. RSVP Tiffany Pryor @ ICAH or 312-427-4460, ext 236. 12pm-l:30pm, ICAH, 226 S. Wabash Ave., Suite 900
Sara Paretsky, 30th anniversary of V.l. Warshawski series Paretsky discusses her work and its significance to Chicago, . including her new book Breakdown, with the Chicago Tribune's Rick Kogan. Also joining us are special guest actors from Steppenwolf Theatre Company who will ' give a brief reading of Paretsk/s work. Cindy Pritzker Auditorium; 6pm, Harold Washington Library Center, 400 S. State St., www.chicagopubliclibrary.org
The Orion Ensemble, Celebrating Women Composers In honor of Women's History Month in March, The Orion Ensemble will be "Celebrating Women Composers" of three centuries, four countries and four distinct styles: Chicago-based composer Stacy Garrop's Silver Dagger for Violin, Cello and Piano (2009); Louise Farreni^s Trio in ?-flat Major for Clarinet, CeIb and Piano, Op. 44; British composer Phyllis Täte's (1911-85) Air and Variations for Clarinet, Violin and Piano (1957); and Piano Trio in D Minor, Op. 11 by German composer Fanny Mendelssohn (1805-1847), brother of Felix. 7:30pm, 630-628-9591, Roosevelt University's Ganz Memorial Hall, 430 S. Michigan Ave., www.orionensemble.org
Baton Show Lounge 43rd Anniversary The Top of The Nation Revue at 8:30pm, 10:30pm, 12:30pm. Through March 18. Baton Show Lounge, 436 N. Clark St., www.thebaton sho wlo unge, com
SARA SMILE
Saturday, March 14
Writer Sara Paretsky will talk about her iconic detective character V.I. Warshawsky at the Harold Washington Library Center. 400 S. State St.
Thursday, March 75
Defending Women's Rights: In the Courtroom, the Capitol and Beyond Honoring 2012 Impact Awards honorées, including a posthumous award honoring Christina Santiago, Puerto Rican, lesbian and feminist activist. Tickets on sale now. 6 pm reception, 7 pm awards ceremony; 6pm, Spertus Institute, Venue SIXlO, 610 S. Michigan Ave., www.cfw.org/impact
CD4-The Dating Game/Poz Box Poz Box is tike mailbox where you send messages, flirts, or a simple hello to other HIV Positive or Positive-friendly people. Free food and $2 domestic and $3 import beers. 7pm-10pm, Jackhammer, 6406 N Clark Street, Chicago, www.jackhammer-chicago.com
In the Heart of America Stage play speaks directly to the diverse Chicago community with imagination and clarity. Thru April 1, 2012. Saturdays at 7:30 pm and Sundays at 2:30 pm. 7:3 Opm, Greenhouse Theater Center, 2257 N. Lincoln Ave., Chicago, www.theatreseven.org
Amy & Freddy NEW CD Release Party Chicago adored cabaret duo Amy & Freddy release first album in seven years "We Get Along "at Mayne Stage. General Admission is $23.00. www.amyfreddy.com 18+ with ID; Spm-llpm, Mayne Stage, 1328 W. Morse Ave., www.amyfreddy.com
Frat Night Kilt Party! This St Patrick's week Frat Night is going to be big! Last year, Scarlet's St Patrick's Frat Night was the party of the street and Scarlet plans to make it even better! 9pm, Scarlet Bar, 3320 N. Halsted St., www.scarletbarchicago.com
IT'S AN HONOR
Thursday, March 15
Christina Santiago wiLL be among the Chicago Foundation for Women's Impact Award honorees. Friday, March 16
Lesbian and Gay Bar Association of Chicago Proceeds, including those generated from sponsorship, ad purchases, and silent auction sales, will benefit the LAGBAC Foundation, non-profit sister organization providing scholarships for law students to work on LGBT issues during the summer. Tickets $50-$200 online. 5:30pm-9pm, Palmer House Hotel, 17 E. Monroe St., www.lagbac.org
Powder Room: EQIL Ladies' Night Third Friday of each month, meet some new friends and enjoy creative cocktails, and the raffle of a champagne party for 20! RSVP to info@eqil.org. 8pm-10pm, Parlour on Clark, 6341 N Clark, Chicago, www.eqiLorg
VH 1's Love & Hip Hop Reality TV Star Erica Mena URBANO at Circuit Presents Reality TV Star Erica Mena from VHl's Love & Hip Hop. llpm, 773-325-2233, Circuit, 3641 N Halsted, www.urbanochicago.com Saturday, March 17
This Will Have Been: Art, Love, & Politics in the 1980s The years shaped by two phenomena that frame the 1980s: feminism and the AIDS crisis. Within these larger outlines, the exhibition finds desire - rather than cynicism or irony - to be the real tenor of the decade. Through June 3, 2012. 12pm, Museum of Contemporary Art, 220 E. Chicago Ave., www.mcachicago.org/media
Sappho's Salon Emerging Writers Showcase Featuring Liz Baudler, M. Shelly Conner, Ames Hawkins, and Allison WoIcott. $7-$10 sliding admission includes food and wine as part of this popular salon night for lesbians and their friends. 7:30pm, Women & Children First, 5233 N. Clark St., Chicago, www.womenandchildrenfirst.com
Mr. Club Krave Benefit Show & St. Pattys Party Join Mr. Club Krave, Myke Kagan as he raises money for the 2012 Mr. Club Krave Contest. With special guest Miss Club Krave, Angélique Munro and a cast of fabulous entertainers. 50/50 split the pot raffle, St. Patrick's Day celebration, drink special and hot music. $4 cover after 9 pm, receive a drink ticket worth $4 towards your 1st drink. 8pm, Club Krave, 13126 S Western Ave, Blue Island, www. clubkrave.com
Ashley Morgan Serves You Drag-tini Want theatrics? Want some Drag? Want some intoxicating entertainment? Then come to The Call in Andersonville, Saturday March 17. 9:30pm, 773-334-2525, The Call (Chicago), 1547 W. Bryn Mawr Ave.
Sunday, March Ì8
Urban Village Church: Andersonville service Andersonville is a neighborhood full of passion, art, diversity, and eclectic energy, all which makes Urban Village Church thrilled to be joining the community! 10:30am-ll:45am, 1602 W. Ainslie (at Ashland), www.newchicagochurch.com
Urban Village Church Spiritual worship is about coming together as community to make space for God to move in us. 10:15am-ll:30am, Urban Village Church, Spertus Institute, 610 S. Michigan Ave., www.urbanvillagechurch.org
Dignity Chicago Progressive, inclusive and welcoming Catholic Community. Mass each Sunday evening. dignitychicago@ gmaiLcom; 5pm, 3338 N. Broadway, www. dignity-chicago.org
Friends, Fashion and Philanthropy spring preview Driving Fashion Forward, an evening of cocktails from Knightsbridge, light bites from Carlos' new restaurant Nieto's, and a preview of North Shore Spring fashions from the finest boutiques in the North Shore. All proceeds from the raffle will go to A Safe Place to benefit victims of domestic violence. 5pm-7:30pm, Autohaus on Edens, 1600 Frontage Rd., Northbrook, www.autohausonedens.com
Without a Shadow of a Doubt Borris Powell Fall/Winter Collection shows read-to-wear clothing, trademark carryall handbags, scarves and a new men's collection. VIP, 5:30 pm, $110. General 6:30 pm, $40. 6:30pm, River East Art Center, 435 E. Illinois St., www.uvidy.com/borrispowell
Taverna 750 First Call Brunch Come sample the amazing food and drink of Taverna 750. Spruce up your Sunday as Taverna 750 unveils its tasty creations and wonderful libations. $20 packages to meet your Sunday Brunch goals! llam-2pm, Taverna 750, 750 W. Cornelia Ave.
BORRIS DAY
Sunday, March IB
Local fashion designer Bom's Powell will unveil a new men's collection, among other things, at his show at the River East Art Center, 435 E. Illinois St.
Monday, March 19
Show Biz Kids From Hell: 20 Years of Trailer Park Cabaret Wild Chicago's Emmy-award winning Dick O'Day and Singer Spotlight showcase creator Becca Kaufman celebrate 20 years together onstage creating "the best of the worst" and "the worst of the best" in musical cabaret. Tickets $20, $15 students/seniors; 7:30pm, 847251-7424, Wilmette Theatre, 1122 Central Ave., Wilmette, www.wilmettetheatre.com
Live Band Karaoke with Amy Armstrong Every Monday night at 10PM in the Front Bar, hosted by the one and only Amy Armstrong; 10pm, Roscoe's, 3356 N Halsted St., www.roscoes.com
Tuesday, March 20
Judy A. Saslow Gallery presents: Timeless Renowned outsider and contemporary art collector, Judy Saslow, will be presenting Timeless, a new exhibit featuring a collection of pieces exploring woodland spirits, ancient spiritual art and transforming the old into new; llam-6pm, 312-943-0530, Judy A. Saslow Gallery 300 W. Superior St, www.jsasbwgallery.com
Election Day Show up! 12pm, Your voting area
Gay-Themed German Films of the Silent Era Screenings at Gerber/Hart Library and Archives, 7pm-9:30pm, 773-271-2148, Gerber/Hart Library and Archives 1127 West Granvilb Ave., www.orchadash.org/
Wed., March 21
Cinema Q II presents: I Killed My Mother, Critically hailed dramedy of a gay 16-yearold enfant terrible and the daily battles with his single mother. Queer Film Society, the Center on Halsted, Chicago Filmmakers (the presenting organization of Reeling: The Chicago Lesbian & Gay International Film Festival) and The Legacy Project present the second annual free LGBT film series. Q&A follows. 6:3 Opm, Chicago Cultural Center, 78 E Washington, Chicago, www.explo rechicago.org/city /en/thin gs_ see_do/event_landing/special_events/ dca_t
Asians and Friends Chicago Dining Club New Irish Pub in AndersonviUe. RSVP by phone by Monday, March 19. 7pm, 312409-1573, Lady Gregory's, 5254 N. Clark St., www.ladygregurys.com
Thursday, March 22
Pillars of Justice Awards Appbseed and Chicago Appbseed will host a cocktail reception and brief program highlighting the efforts and achievements of those working to improve the quality of justice in the bgal system. Contact Lisa Stoller at 312-988-6599 or lstolbr@chicagocounciLorg; 6pm-9pm, Paris Cbb, 59 W. Hubbard St., www.chicagocouncil.org
Chicago Chefs Spring Into Action The Chicago Metropolitan Battered Women's Network host Alpana Singh, master sommelier and host of the show Check Pbase, will be mistress of ceremonies. $125. 6pm-9pm, Renaissance Blackstone Hotel, 636 S. Michigan, www.batteredwomensnetwork. o rg/chicagochef s.php
Ballet Hispánico The program features the Chicago premiere of African -American choreographer Ronald K. Brown's Espíritu Vivo. Tickets $26-$30. 8pm, 312369-8330, The Dance Center of Columbia Colbge Chicago, 1306 S. Michigan Ave., www.colum.edu/dancecenter
Get calendar online Q: WindyCityMediaGroup.com ChicagoPride.com

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: calendar q

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 23

Pages: 52

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Mar 14, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 962441038

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calendar-q/docview/962441038/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 14, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Few services for gay survivors of domestic abuse

Author: Royce, Jamie Anne

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/few-services-gay-survivors-domestic-abuse/docview/962440086/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "My HIV diagnosis was devastating - absoluteLy devastating," said [Ron Okerson]. "But I was told a Lot of doors would be opening for me [to access HIV sodai services], and it was even more devastating when they didn't."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=23&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=21&amp;date=2012-03-14&amp;atitle=Few+services+for+gay+survivors+of+domestic+abuse&amp;au=Royce%2C+Jamie+Anne&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=23&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=21&amp;date=2012-03-14&amp;atitle=Few+services+for+gay+survivors+of+domestic+abuse&amp;au=Royce%2C+Jamie+Anne&amp;id=doi:

Full text: When Ron Okerson met his former partner, he thought it was Love. The pair hit it off and quickly became involved, eventually cohabitating.
"He was wonderful, charming," said Okerson.
However, after the honeymoon stage, the relationship quickly spiraled into a pattern of physical, mental, psychological and sexual abuse.
'It turned out that he really wasn't [wonderful], and by the time I realized it, I was already sucked in and the abuse had already started," said Okerson. "He abused me in many unimaginable ways, ranging from beating my head while I slept to holding a carving knife to my throat threatening to cut my head off starting from the back so he could hear me scream."
Out of work and alienated from friends and family, Okerson did not have anywhere else to go. After two years of Living with his partner, a neighbor who frequently overheard the abuse eventually persuaded Okerson to Leave his partner by offering him a place to stay.
'The day I Left, he beat me with a broomstick," said Okerson. "That's the type of guy he is."
LGBT-specific sheLters and abuse-survivor services are rare, especiaLLy for men. Few federaL and state surveys enumerate sexual orientation, making it difficult to show social service agencies that domestic vioLence is an issue for the LGBT community; however, a Center for American Progress survey estimates 30 percent of same-sex partnerships experience domestic vioLence.
"Most people think of domestic vioLence as something between a man and a woman, and are just unaware of the fact that same-sex couples sometimes have problems and difficuLties and challenges. Some of those include violence between the partners, unfortunately," said Jeff KreheLy, vice president of LGBT research and communications at the Center for American Progress.
Okerson caLLed on sociaL service agencies for the homeless to secure temporary housing, finding it difficuLt for an unmarried, able-bodied gay man without dependents to access services. But he eventuaLLy Landed in the ILLinois Department of Human Services (DHS) Independent Living program at the Lakeview YMCA.
But even away from his home, Okerson couLd not escape the abuse.
"My ex showed up at the [YMCA] and yeLLed at me, ? should have kiLLed you,'" said Okerson.
Upon signing the housing agreement, Okerson's DHS case manager asked him about his job pLans. To earn a higher wage, Okerson wanted to compLete a certificate for medicaL billing and coding, but he would need money for tuition, so he sought out employment. As a homeless person, he struggled to find a job because he had no money for bus fare. Let a Lone the basics for an interview Like cLean Laundry or a haircut.
Okerson diligentLy researched every avenue he could think of for assistance, bringing his notes and documentation to every meeting with a social service agency. Through his seLf-advocacy, he often found that he knew more about available services than his case managers, one of whom "asked me to put my notes away because she was intimidated by them."
""I understand that while case managers may be overworked there are processes that can and should be implemented to streamline many things," said Okerson.
Navigating social services and bureaucracy proved so overwhelming and exhausting for Okerson that he started wishing he had never Left his abusive partner.
"I was so beaten down by the system that I thought maybe Leaving my ex was a mistake," said Okerson. "I was starting to beLieve I had Left him for nothing."
Desperate, Okerson turned to selling his bLood and plasma for cash, but before he could donate he was tested for HIV.
"My HIV diagnosis was devastating - absoluteLy devastating," said Okerson. "But I was told a Lot of doors would be opening for me [to access HIV sodai services], and it was even more devastating when they didn't."
In need of counseling and HIV-reLated medicai care, Okerson turned to Howard Brown Health Center, a place that Okerson said "absoluteLy saved my Life."
The DHS Independent Living program only offers temporary housing, and the end of his stay at the YMCA was growing near. JobLess, penmless and soon-to-be homeLess, Okerson was granted a one-time, one-month extension of services, buying him some time to secure aLternate accommodations.
Having exhausted every avenue he could find for help - sociaL service agencies, elected officials, government agencies and LocaL charities - Okerson sent a desperate pLea to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). John Trasvina, assistant secretary for HUD's Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity program, shared Okerson's story with Chicago HUD office, who reached out to Okerson and referred him to a housing program.
"Domestic vioLence in the LGBT community is an area where we're just Lacking a Lot of knowledge, a Lot of services. We're hoping that can change," said KreheLy.
While still struggling to access basic needs, Okerson has Lined up housing for when his stay at the YMCA ends. He also Landed a work-study position, for which he will receive a smaLL stipend.
"ALL I am asking for is the opportunity to reclaim and rebuild my Life," said Okerson. "It shouldn't be this hard."
Those dealing with domestic partner/intimate partner vioLence can caLL the Anti-Violence Crisis HotLine at the Center on HaLsted at 773-871CARE or the nationaL Stop Abuse For Everyone hotline at 616-941-0825.

Subject: Social services; Gays & lesbians; Homeless people; Domestic violence

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Okerson, Ron

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Few services for gay survivors of domestic abuse

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 23

Pages: 21

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Mar 14, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 962440086

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/few-services-gay-survivors-domestic-abuse/docview/962440086/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 14, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Guide to the gays

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/guide-gays/docview/962440076/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: The skinny: This increasingLy contentious race between [Paula Basta] and incumbent state Rep. KeLLy Cassidy took on intrigue because it's possibLy the first poLiticaL contest in the state pitting two out Lesbians against each other. (On Jan. 19, for example, Basta's campaign issued a press reLease accusing Cassidy of impLying through a phone-survey question that Basta's campaign was in violation of federal Law.)

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=23&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=20&amp;date=2012-03-14&amp;atitle=Guide+to+the+gays&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=23&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=20&amp;date=2012-03-14&amp;atitle=Guide+to+the+gays&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: The March 20 primary elections feature several openly gay and Lesbian candidates for office. (ALL of the candidates are in the Democratic party.)
Paula Basta
Race: State House (Uth District)
Web site: PauLaBasta.org
The skinny: This increasingLy contentious race between Basta and incumbent state Rep. KeLLy Cassidy took on intrigue because it's possibLy the first poLiticaL contest in the state pitting two out Lesbians against each other. (On Jan. 19, for example, Basta's campaign issued a press reLease accusing Cassidy of impLying through a phone-survey question that Basta's campaign was in violation of federal Law.) Basta's website highlights her LGBT-reLated accomplishments and "deep understanding of the intrica des of aging and City services."
Kelly Cassidy
Race: State House (Uth District)
Web site: CitizensForKeLLyCassidy.com
The skinny: Once a part of the Cook County state's attorney's office, Cassidy became a state representative in May 2011 after Harry Osterman stepped down to successfuLLy run for alderman. Recently, she has protested Library cutbacks, and helped introduce a marriage-equality bill and a gender-identity amendment.
Greg Harris
Race: ILLinois State Representative (13th District)
Web site: GregHarris.org
The skinny: Harris, who is openLy HIV-positive as weLL as being openLy gay, has represented his district (which includes Uptown, Ravenswood, LincoLn Square, North Center and Bowman vi LLe) since being elected in 2006. Although his name has appeared most pro minent Ly in LGBT publications in connection with the issue of marriage equality (introducing a dviL-marriage biLL), he is intimateLy invoLved with a host of other issues, such as the state budget, foreclosure mediation, children of incarcerated parents and insurance reform. He is currently running unopposed.
Deb Meli
Race: ILLinois State Representative (40th District)
Web site: DebMeLL.org
The skinny: Deb MeLL started her first term making history as the first open Lesbian in the ILLinois GeneraL Assembly - and then did something historic in being the onLy representative to vote against impeachment of then-Gov. Rod BLagojevich, her brather-in-Law. A staunch advocate for marriage equaLity, MeLL is running unopposed in the primary, aLthough it Looks Like she'LL face RepubLican Antoinette "Toni" Pucdo-Johnson in the general eLection.
Mary Trew
Race: Cook County Circuit Court Judge
(Ninth Subcircuit, Epstein vacancy)
Web site: www.VoteTrew.com
The skinny: When she was the executive director of Domestic VioLence LegaL Clinic, she heLped create one of the nation's first on-site dviL court clinics for orders of protection in the Cook County Domestic VioLence Courthouse. In November 2010, Trew was appointed by the ILLinois Supreme Court to the James R. Epstein 9th Subdrcuit Vacancy.
John Ehrlich
Race: Cook County Circuit Court Judge
(Eighth Subdrcuit, CoLe vacancy)
Web site: EhrlichForJudge.com
The skinny: Another race pitting two out candidates is a judiciaL one involving John EhrLich and Brad Trowbridge. As deputy corporation counseL in the City of Chicago's Law department, EhrLich oversees aLmost three dozen attorneys and a staff of 15. He's personally handled cases such as the Wrightwood porch coLLapse and the E2 nightcLub tragedy.
Brad Trowbridge
Race: Cook County Circuit Court Judge
(Eighth Subcircuit, CoLe vacancy)
Website: BradForJudge.com
The skinny: On his website, Trowbridge discusses his LegaL and counseling/social service experience, and has worked at agencies such as the Northwestern University Counseling Center and the AIDS LegaL Co u nei L. He also authored the "Alternate FamiLy Relations and Civil Unions in ILLinois" chapter for ILLinois State Bar Association FamiLy Law Handbook.
Alex Arroyo
Race: State House (84th District)
Web site: Arroyo2012.com
The skinny: Arroyo was born and raised in Aurora. The former chair of the Aurora Democratic Party is an active union member in good standing with the Association of Flight Attendants-Communications Workers of America. Arroyo also sits on the board of directors of the ILLinois CoaLition of Community Services in Springfield.
Mike Forti
Race: Cook County Circuit Court Judge
(Simmons vacancy)
Web site: MichaeLFortiForJudge.com
The skinny: Forti has been practicing Law for more than three decades and has been with the City of Chicago's Law department for 17 years. In an interview with Windy City Times, he said, "This is not an instance where peopLe have to pick either someone that is highLy quaLified someone that is a member of the LGBT community. I think that peopLein the LGBT community want and deserve both, just Like the rest of the population."
John Dalton
Race: 16th Circuit Court, Kane, "A" vacancy
Web site: JohnDaLtonForJudge.com
The skinny: Dalton - who would be the first openLy gay judge eLected outside of Cook County if he prevails - has been an arbitration chairman for more than a decade and an attorney for more than two decades. Dalton plans to fund his campaign without accepting donations from attorneys - a rare position among ILLinois judiciaL candidates. Also, Dalton is an active member of Elgin's First Congregational Church, United Church of Christ.
Deidre Baumann
Race: Cook County Circuit Court Judge (Stewart vacancy)
Web site: DeidreBaumann4Judge.com
The skinny: Baumann is a member of the Chicago Bar Association, having served as president of the Constitutional Law Committee, the Cook County Bar Association, the Chicago Lesbian and Gay Bar Association and the LegaL fraternity Phi ALpha Delta. She is also an active member of her community, including serving as president of the Chicago/Cook County 4-H Foundation and as a board member of the Lane Tech ALumni Association.
De bra Shore
Race: MetropoLitan Water Reclamation District board
Web site: DebraShore.org
The skinny: Shore has been on the board since 2006. One of nine eLected commissioners, she chairs the committees on stormwater management and state Legislation and rules. Fun fact: Shore has cLimbed 42 of the 54 mountains in CoLorado more than 14,000 feet high.
Andrea M. Schleifer
Race: Cook County Circuit Court Judge
(12th Subdrcuit, Rochford vacancy)
Web site: ELectJudgeSchLeifer.org
The skinny: A resident of Des Plaines, Schleifer (a member of the LGBT organization the ALLiance of ILLinois Judges) has been serving as a Cook County judge at the Richard J. DaLey Center for more than a year. She is currentLy hearing custody /visitation and child support matters, and is responsible for more than 6,400 cases.
Sam Yingling
Race: State House (62nd District)
Web site: SamYingLing.com
The skinny: Yingling is a native of centraL Lake County and Lives in Round Lake Beach, and is running in what he caLLs an "independent" district. He attended DePauL University, studying public poLicy and administration, and metro po Lita n Land use (urban planning).
There are also LGBTs running as presidential deLegates, including for President Barack Obama. Those incLude GaiL Morse, ALd. Tom Tunney, Debra Shore and Center on HaLsted's Modesto "Tico" VaLLe. See page 13.
Anti-gay former state rep. Penny PuLLen is running as a Santorum deLegate.

Subject: Candidates; Gays & lesbians; Primaries & caucuses; Congressional elections

People: Basta, Paula; Cassidy, Kelly; Harris, Greg (public official)

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Guide to the gays

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 23

Pages: 20

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Mar 14, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Countryof publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 962440076

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/guide-gays/docview/962440076/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 14, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Guide to the gays

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/guide-gays/docview/952907218/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: The skinny: This increasingly contentious race between [Paula Basta] and incumbent state Rep. KeLLy Cassidy took on intrigue because ifs possibLy the first poLitical contest in the state pitting two out Lesbians against each other. (On Jan. 19, for example, Basta's campaign issued a press reLease accusing Cassidy of implying through a phone-survey question that Basta's campaign was in violation of federal Law.)

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=22&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=14&amp;date=2012-03-07&amp;atitle=Guide+to+the+gays&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=22&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=14&amp;date=2012-03-07&amp;atitle=Guide+to+the+gays&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: The March 20 primary elections feature severaL openly gay and Lesbian candidates for office. (All of the candidates are in the Democratic party.)
Paula Basta
Race: State House (14th District)
Web site: PaulaBasta.org
The skinny: This increasingly contentious race between Basta and incumbent state Rep. KeLLy Cassidy took on intrigue because ifs possibLy the first poLitical contest in the state pitting two out Lesbians against each other. (On Jan. 19, for example, Basta's campaign issued a press reLease accusing Cassidy of implying through a phone-survey question that Basta's campaign was in violation of federal Law.) Basta's website highlights her LGBT-related accomplishments and "deep understanding of the intrica des of aging and City services."
Kelly Cassidy
Race: State House (14th District)
Web site: CitizensForKeLLyCassidy.com
The skinny: Once a part of the Cook County state's attorney's office, Cassidy became a state representative in May 2011 after Harry Osterman stepped down to successfully run for alderman. Recently, she has protested Library cutbacks, and heLped introduce a marriage-equaLity biLL and a gender-identity amendment.
Greg Harris
Race: ILLinois State Representative (13th District)
Web site: GregHarris.org
The skinny: Harris, who is open Ly HIV-positive as weLL as being openLy gay, has represented his district (which includes Uptown, Ravenswood, Lincoln Square, North Center and BowmanviLLe) since being eLerted in 2006. Although his name has appeared most prominently in LGBT publications in connection with the issue of marriage equaLity (introdudng a civiL-marriage biLL), he is intimateLy involved with a host of other issues, such as the state budget, foreclosure mediation, children of incarcerated parents and insurance reform. He is currentLy running unopposed.
Deb Meli
Race: ILLinois State Representative (40th District)
Web site: DebMeLL.org
The skinny: Deb MeLL started her first term making history as the first open Lesbian in the ILLinois General Assembly - and then did something historic in being the only representative to vote against impeachment of then-Gov. Rod Blagojevich, her brother-in-law. A staunch advocate for marriage equaLity, MeLL is running unopposed in the primary, aLthough it Looks Like she'LL face Republican Antoinette "Toni" Puccio-Johnson in the general election.
Mary Trew
Race: Cook County Circuit Court Judge (Ninth Subdrcuit, Epstein vacancy)
Web site: www.VoteTrew.com
The skinny: When she was the executive director of Domestic Violence LegaL CLinic, she heLped create one of the nation's first on-site civil court clinics for orders of protection in the Cook County Domestic Violence Courthouse. In November 2010, Trew was appointed by the ILLinois Supreme Court to the James R. Epstein 9th Subcircuit Vacancy.
John Ehrlich
Race: Cook County Circuit Court Judge (Eighth Subcircuit, CoLe vacancy)
Web site: EhrlichForJudge.com
The skinny: Another race pitting two out candidates is a judicial one involving John Ehrlich and Brad Trowbridge. As deputy corporation counsel in the City of Chicago's Law department, Ehrlich oversees almost three dozen attorneys and a staff of 15. He's personaLLy handLed cases such as the Wrightwood porch coLLapse and the E2 nightcLub tragedy.
Brad Trowbridge
Race: Cook County Circuit Court Judge (Eighth Subcircuit, CoLe vacancy)
Website: BradForJudge.com
The skinny: On his website, Trowbridge discusses his LegaL and counseLing/social service experience, and has worked at agendes such as the Northwestern University Counseling Center and the AIDS LegaL CounciL. He also authored the "Alternate Family Relations and Civil Unions in ILLinois" chapter for ILLinois State Bar Association FamiLy Law Handbook.
Alex Arroyo
Race: State House (84th District)
Web site: Arroyo2012.com
The skinny: Arroyo was born and raised in Aurora. The former chair of the Aurora Democratic Party is an active union member in good standing with the Assodation of Flight Attendants-Communications Workers of America. Arroyo also sits on the board of directors of the ILLinois Coalition of Community Services in Springfield.
Mike Forti
Race: Cook County Circuit Court Judge (Simmons vacancy)
Web site: MichaeLFortiForJudge.com
The skinny: Forti has been practicing Law for more than three decades and has been with the City of Chicago's Law department for 17 years. In an interview with Windy City Times, he said, "This is not an instance where peopLe have to pick either someone that is highly qualified someone that is a member of the LGBT community. I think that peopLe in the LGBT community want and deserve both, just Like the rest of the population."
John Dalton
Race: 16th Circuit Court, Kane, "A" vacancy
Web site: JohnDaltonForJudge.com
The skinny: DaLton - who wouLd be the first openLy gay judge eLerted outside of Cook County if he prevails - has been an arbitration chairman for more than a decade and an attorney for more than two decades. DaLton plans to fund his campaign without accepting donations from attorneys - a rare position among ILLinois judiciaL candidates. Also, DaLton is an active member of Elgin's First Congregational Church, United Church of Christ.
Deidre Baumann
Race: Cook County Circuit Court Judge (Stewart vacancy)
Web site: DeidreBaumann4Judge.com
The skinny: Baumann is a member of the Chicago Bar Association, having served as president of the Constitutional Law Committee, the Cook County Bar Assodation, the Chicago Lesbian and Gay Bar Association and the LegaL fraternity Phi ALpha Delta. She is also an active member of her community, including serving as president of the Chicago/Cook County 4-H Foundation and as a board member of the Lane Tech Alumni Association.
Debra Shore
Race: Metropolitan Water Reclamation District board
Web site: DebraShore.org
The skinny: Shore has been on the board since 2006. One of nine eLerted commissioners, she chairs the committees on stormwater management and state Legislation and rules. Fun fart: Shore has climbed 42 of the 54 mountains in Colorado more than 14,000 feet high.
Andrea M. Schleifer
Race: Cook County Circuit Court Judge (12th Subdrcuit, Rochford vacancy)
Web site: ELectJudgeSchLeifer.org
The skinny: A resident of Des Plaines, Schleifer (a member of the LGBT organization the ALLiance of ILLinois Judges) has been serving as a Cook County judge at the Richard J. DaLey Center for more than a year. She is currentLy hearing custody/visitation and child support matters, and is responsible for more than 6,400 cases.
There are also LGBTs running as presidential delegates, including for President Barack Obama. Those include Gail Morse, ALd. Tom Tunney, Debra Shore and Center on HaLsted's Modesto "Tico" VaLLe.
Anti-gay former state rep. Penny PuLLen is running as a Santorum deLegate.

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Candidates; Personal profiles; Elections

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Basta, Paula; Cassidy, Kelly; Trew, Mary

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Guide to the gays

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 22

Pages: 14

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Mar 7, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 952907218

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/guide-gays/docview/952907218/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 7, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Lesbian judge holds campaign fundraiser

Author: Royce, Jamie Anne

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lesbian-judge-holds-campaign-fundraiser/docview/952907012/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "The court is high-volume. There's Lots of probLems, Lots families in crisis, lots of domestic violence," said [Trew].

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=22&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=12&amp;date=2012-03-07&amp;atitle=Lesbian+judge+holds+campaign+fundraiser&amp;au=Royce%2C+Jamie+Anne&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=22&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=12&amp;date=2012-03-07&amp;atitle=Lesbian+judge+holds+campaign+fundraiser&amp;au=Royce%2C+Jamie+Anne&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Supporters of Lesbian Judge Mary S. Trew hosted a campaign fundraiser March 4 at Tsamis Law Firm in AndersonviLLe.
After two unsuccessfuL - but close- judicial campaigns, the ILLinois Supreme Court appointed Trew to the Epstein vacancy in the 9th JudidaL Subcircuit in November 2010.
"I'd get close. I had good bar ratings. You get close enough, you feel Like you can taste it," said Trew.
Once appointed, Trew was assigned to parentage court because of her background in family Law, hearing mainly custody, visitation and child support cases.
"The court is high-volume. There's Lots of probLems, Lots families in crisis, lots of domestic violence," said Trew.
Trew also performs dvil unions, and Led a mass civil-union ceremony organized by the Civil Rights Agenda in June 2011 in MiLLennium Park.
She is currentLy running to retain her seat in the Democratic primary March 20.
"I hope peopLe consider my candidacy. My whole career, the reason I do what I do, is to serve the public," said Trew.
For more on Trew, visit www.votetrew.com.

Subject: Political campaigns; Judicial elections; Judges & magistrates; Fund raising; Gays & lesbians

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Trew, Mary S

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Lesbian judge holds campaign fundraiser

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 22

Pages: 12

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Mar 7, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 952907012

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lesbian-judge-holds-campaign-fundraiser/docview/952907012/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 7, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

ELECTIONS 2012: Brad Trowbridge on counseling, inclusive slogan

Author: Demarest, Erica

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/elections-2012-brad-trowbridge-on-counseling/docview/952906809/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [Brad Trowbridge]: I started counseLing in 1986, after I got my master's degree. Then I went to Northwestern University to be their "gay counselor," so to speak. There'd been at Least one suicide on campus by a gay student, and there was a second student that they suspected of being gay. The administration thought we needed to address this head-on, so they sent a message to the LGBT student population that they valued LGBT students and had a resource avaiLabLe to them.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=22&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2012-03-07&amp;atitle=ELECTIONS+2012%3A+Brad+Trowbridge+on+counseling%2C+inclusive+slogan&amp;au=Demarest%2C+Erica&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=22&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2012-03-07&amp;atitle=ELECTIONS+2012%3A+Brad+Trowbridge+on+counseling%2C+inclusive+slogan&amp;au=Demarest%2C+Erica&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Since leaving his counseLing position at Northwestern University more than a decade ago, Brad Trowbridge has Launched his own famiLyLaw practice, represented more than 500 domestic abuse victims and written a chapter on civiL unions for the ILLinois Bar Association.
This month, the openLy gay attorney is Looking to make the next leap in his career as a candidate in the 8th JudiciaL Subcircuit. Trowbridge recently sat down with the Windy City Times to taLk about his campaign, counseLing work and hopes for 2012.
Windy City Times: Can you tell us a little bit about your counseling background?
Brad Trowbridge: I started counseLing in 1986, after I got my master's degree. Then I went to Northwestern University to be their "gay counselor," so to speak. There'd been at Least one suicide on campus by a gay student, and there was a second student that they suspected of being gay. The administration thought we needed to address this head-on, so they sent a message to the LGBT student population that they valued LGBT students and had a resource avaiLabLe to them. Although I counseled aLL undergraduate and graduate students, I was the designated gay counselor. I dealt with a Lot of coming out issues.
WCT: What prompted your transition into law?
BT: I derided I wanted to be more of an advocate. I went to Law school at the University of ILLinois at Urbana-Champaign, and couLdn't move back here fast enough. [Laughs] It's hard to be in your 30s and out in Champaign.
As a counseLor and therapist, your role is to help peopLe heaL from traumatic experiences. Many of the students I worked with at Northwestern had suffered some sort of abuse in their Lives, some sort of childhood trauma. Many of them were having a hard time coming out, either because of their family, their church or society in generaL. We're taLking about the earLy-to mid-'90s. The notion of civiL unions or same-sex marriage was not even seriously considered.
I derided that it rea LLy wasn't my natural way to be - to be the comforter and the healer, the therapist. I reaLly wanted to roLL up my sLeeves and go kick butt, go do something. Law school wouLd give me an avenue to do that.
WCT: Your campaign slogan is "All Families Matter." Can you tell us more about that?
BT: It's supposed to encompass the idea that aLL families are important. A family couLd be one person. It could be a straight couple, a samesex coupLe, a coupLe that has children, a single mother or a victim of abuse.
Ifs everybody. One of the things that I've Learned in my career is that our court system doesn't often demonstrate that aLL families do matter. Sometimes peopLe who have the money and resources get better treatment, better representation - or representation at aLL Many peopLe can't afford representation. I want to send the message that aLL peopLe should be treated equaLLy, have equaL access to the courts and get the same justice.
WCT: I saw that you ran in the 2010 judicial election, but withdrew.
BT: We thought there was going to be an opening in the 8th Subcircuit. My intention at the time was to get a head start if that opening ever became avaiLabLe, and it didn't. An opening occurred countywide, and I tried to get enough signatures at the Last minute to get on the balLot. When it became clear that I didn't have enough, I withdrew.
WCT: You wrote a chapter on same-sex relationships in the Illinois State Bar Association's Family Law Handbook. How did that come about?
BT: I don't know. [Laughs] I got a caLl from the editor. Someone had referred me because they knew I worked with a Lot of same-sex couples; I think it was just word of mouth in SpringfieLd.
They asked me to write about civiL unions and same-sex couples - not so much as an advocate, but as an educator. It was finished in December 2010, but we heLd off publishing since the Civil Unions Act was about to be voted on. Once that was passed, [the chapter] changed entireLy. It was reaLly focusing on how same-sex coupLes co u Ld contract with themselves to share property and raise children - to sort of Lega LLy meLd their Lives together. With the passage of the civiL union act, that made things a Little easier - kind of Like one-stop shopping.
WCT: Do you think there are any areas of the law where LGBT people are particularly discriminated against?
BT: The Law, for the most part, is gender- and sexual orientation-neutraL. What reaLly comes into pLay is the judge that peopLe end up standing in front of.
One of the things I think wiLL be interesting: We ceLebrated the passage of the Civil Unions Act this past June. WeLL, if our reLationships are Like heterosexual reLationships, half of those essentially 'marriages' are going to end. We're going to end up in the court system more than ever before.
It'LL be interesting to see how our judges handle same-sex coupLes essentiaLLy divorcing and disputing custody of their children. That could be an area where we're at a disadvantage. We don't know whether those judges are going to treat us with respect.... or whether gender stereotypes are going to come into pLay in terms of awarding custody.
We need judges who have more than just sound Legal minds. We have to have judges who understand the compLexities of Life today: human reLationships, same-sex marriage, same-sex coupLes having children, domestic violence. It's a different worLd than it was 20 years ago.
To learn more about Trowbridge, visit www. bradforjudge.com.

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Attorneys; Family law; Judicial elections; Discrimination

People: Trowbridge, Brad

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: ELECTIONS 2012: Brad Trowbridge on counseling, inclusive slogan

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 22

Pages: 11

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Mar 7, 2012

Section: PRIMARY ELECTION GUIDE

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 952906809

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/elections-2012-brad-trowbridge-on-counseling/docview/952906809/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 7, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Guide to the gays

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/guide-gays/docview/940889503/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: The skinny: This increasingly contentious race between [Paula Basta] and incumbent state Rep. KeLLy Cassidy took on intrigue because it's possibLy the first poLitical contest in the state pitting two out Lesbians against each other. (On Jan. 19, for example, Basta's campaign issued a press reLease accusing Cassidy of impLying through a phone-survey question that Basta's campaign was in violation of federal law.)

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=21&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=13&amp;date=2012-02-29&amp;atitle=Guide+to+the+gays&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=21&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=13&amp;date=2012-02-29&amp;atitle=Guide+to+the+gays&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: The March 20 primary elections feature several openly gay and Lesbian candidates for office. (All of the candidates are in the Democratic party.)
Paula Basta
Race: State House (14th District)
Web site: PauLaBasta.org
The skinny: This increasingly contentious race between Basta and incumbent state Rep. KeLLy Cassidy took on intrigue because it's possibLy the first poLitical contest in the state pitting two out Lesbians against each other. (On Jan. 19, for example, Basta's campaign issued a press reLease accusing Cassidy of impLying through a phone-survey question that Basta's campaign was in violation of federal law.) Basta's website highlights her LGBT-related accompLishments and "deep understanding of the intricacies of aging and City services."
Kelly Cassidy
Race: State House (14th District)
Web site: CitizensForKellyCassidy.com
The skinny: Once a part of the Cook County state's attorney's office, Cassidy became a state representative in May 2011 after Harry Osterman stepped down to successfully run for alderman. RecentLy, she has protested Library cutbacks, and helped introduce a marriage-equality biLL and a gender-identity amendment.
Greg Ham's
Race: ILLinois State Representative (13th District)
Web site: GregHarris.org
The skinny: Harris, who is openLy HIV-positive as weLL as being openLy gay, has represented his district (which includes Uptown, Ravenswood, Lincoln Square, North Center and BowmanvilLe) since being eLected in 2006. ALthough his name has appeared most prominentLy in LGBT publications in connection with the issue of marriage equaLity (introducing a civil-marriage biLL), he is intimateLy invoLved with a host of other issues, such as the state budget, forecLosure mediation, children of incarcerated parents and insurance reform. He is currentLy running unopposed.
Deb Meli
Race: ILLinois State Representative (40th District)
Web site: DebMeLL.org
The skinny: Deb MeLL started her first term making history as the first open Lesbian in the ILLinois General Assembly - and then did something historic in being the only representative to vote against impeachment of then-Gov. Rod Blagojevich, her brother-in-law. A staunch advocate for marriage equaLity, MeLL is running unopposed in the primary, aLthough it Looks like she'LL face Republican Antoinette "Toni" PuccioJohnson in the general election.
Mary Trew
Race: Cook County Circuit Court Judge (Ninth Subcircuit, Epstein vacancy)
Web site: www.VoteTrew.com
The skinny: When she was the executive director of Domestic Violence LegaL CLinic, she helped create one of the nation's first on-site civil court clinics for orders of protection in the Cook County Domestic Violence Courthouse. In November 2010, Trew was appointed by the ILLinois Supreme Court to the James R. Epstein 9th Subrircuit Vacancy.
John Ehrlich
Race: Cook County Circuit Court Judge (Eighth Subcircuit, CoLe vacancy)
Web site: EhrlichForJudge.com
The skinny: Another race pitting two out candidates is a judicial one involving John Ehrlich and Brad Trowbridge. As deputy corporation counsel in the City of Chicago's Law department, EhrLich oversees aLmost three dozen attorneys and a staff of 15. He's personaLLy handLed cases such as the Wrightwood porch coLLapse and the E2 nightcLub tragedy.
Brad Trowbridge
Race: Cook County Circuit Court Judge (Eighth Subcircuit, Cole vacancy)
Website: BradForJudge.com
The skinny: On his website, Trowbridge discusses his LegaL and counseLing/social service experience, and has worked at agencies such as the Northwestern University CounseLing Center and the AIDS LegaL Council. He also authored the "Alternate Family Relations and Civil Unions in ILLinois" chapter for ILLinois State Bar Association Family Law Handbook.
Alex Arroyo
Race: State House (84th District)
Web site: Arroyo2012.com
The skinny: Arroyo was born and raised in Aurora. The former chair of the Aurora Democratic Party is an active union member in good standing with the Association of FLight AttendantsCommunications Workers of America. Arroyo also sits on the board of directors of the ILLinois CoaLition of Community Services in SpringfieLd.
Mike Forti
Race: Cook County Circuit Court Judge (Simmons vacancy)
Web site: MichaeLFortiForJudge.com
The skinny: Forti has been practicing Law for more than three decades and has been with the City of Chicago's law department for 17 years. In an interview with Windy City Times, he said, "This is not an instance where peopLe have to pick either someone that is highly qualified someone that is a member of the LGBT community. I think that people in the LGBT community want and deserve both, just Like the rest of the population."
John Dalton
Race: 16th Circuit Court, Kane, "A" vacancy
Web site: JohnDaltonForJudge.com
The skinny: DaLton - who wouLd be the first openLy gay judge eLected outside of Cook County if he prevails - has been an arbitration chairman for more than a decade and an attorney for more than two decades. Dalton plans to fund his campaign without accepting donations from attorneys - a rare position among ILLinois judicial candidates. Also, DaLton is an active member of Elgin's First Congregational Church, United Church of Christ.
Debra Shore
Race: Metropolitan Water Reclamation District board
Web site: DebraShore.org
The skinny: Shore has been on the board since 2006. One of nine eLected commissioners, she chairs the committees on stormwater management and state Legislation and rules. Fun fact: Shore has climbed 42 of the 54 mountains in Colorado more than 14,000 feet high.
Andrea M. Schleifer
Race: Cook County Circuit Court Judge (12th Subcircuit, Rochford vacancy)
Web site: ElectJudgeSchLeifer.org
The skinny: A resident of Des Plaines, Schleifer (a member of the LGBT organization the ALLiance of ILLinois Judges) has been serving as a Cook County judge at the Richard J. DaLey Center for more than a year. She is currentLy hearing custody/visitation and child support matters, and is responsible for more than 6,400 cases.
There are also LGBTs running as presidential delegates, including for President Barack Obama. Those include Gail Morse, ALd. Tom Tunney, Debra Shore and Center on Halsted's Modesto "Tico" Valle.
Anti-gay former state rep. Penny Pu Lien is running as a Santorum deLegate.

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Guide to the gays

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 21

Pages: 13

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Feb 29, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 940889503

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/guide-gays/docview/940889503/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 29, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Anti-domestic violence group's gala March 10

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/anti-domestic-violence-groups-gala-march-10/docview/940889471/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Connections for Abused Women and their Children (CAWC), a Chicago organization committed to ending domestic violence, wiLL host its 26th AnnuaL Spring GalaSounds of Silence Saturday, March 10, 6-11 p.m., in the CrystaL BaLLroom of the Hyatt Regency Chicago,...

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=21&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=4&amp;date=2012-02-29&amp;atitle=Anti-domestic+violence+group%27s+gala+March+10&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=21&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=4&amp;date=2012-02-29&amp;atitle=Anti-domestic+violence+group%27s+gala+March+10&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Connections for Abused Women and their Children (CAWC), a Chicago organization committed to ending domestic violence, wiLL host its 26th AnnuaL Spring GalaSounds of Silence Saturday, March 10, 6-11 p.m., in the CrystaL BaLLroom of the Hyatt Regency Chicago, 151 E. Wacker Dr.
The black tie-optional event, presented by Discovery CLothing Company, wiLL feature a cocktail hour with silent auction and mystery wine raffle, foLLowed by a seated dinner, Live auction and dancing. This year, CAWC wiLL present its Champion Award to Adams Street Partners.
Individual ticket prices begin at $250, and VIP tickets can be purchased for $500 each. For more sponsorship and ticket information, contact Anne Borg at aborg@ cawc.org or caLL 773-489-9081, ext. 21.

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Anti-domestic violence group's gala March 10

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 21

Pages: 4

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Feb 29, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 940889471

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/anti-domestic-violence-groups-gala-march-10/docview/940889471/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 29, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Dr. Carl Bell seeks to revolutionize HIV prevention and treatment

Author: Franco, Joe

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dr-carl-bell-seeks-revolutionize-hiv-prevention/docview/940889260/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [CarL BeLL] found that young peopLe who engage in risk-taking behavior more often than not come from sociaL groups that are products of "muLtiple deficiencies." BeLL opined that, "Whether you're BLack, gay, poor, a femaLe or an immigrant, you can either conform to that deficit or you can observe, ? am being denigrated and onLy I wiLL define who I am.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=21&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2012-02-29&amp;atitle=Dr.+Carl+Bell+seeks+to+revolutionize+HIV+prevention+and+treatment&amp;au=Franco%2C+Joe&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=21&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2012-02-29&amp;atitle=Dr.+Carl+Bell+seeks+to+revolutionize+HIV+prevention+and+treatment&amp;au=Franco%2C+Joe&amp;id=doi:

Full text: When asked, Dr. CarL BeLL defined a "famiLy" as a "network of mutuaL commitment." The National Institute of Mental Health uses this same definition.
This definition is one that most aptly applies to the types of "families" that LGBTQ individuals create as weLL as many of those in marginaLized raciaL, sociaL and economic groups.
BeLL and WiLLo Pequegnat co-edited a coLLection of essays FamiLy and HIV/AIDS: CulturaLand Contextual Issues in Prevention and Treatment, by Springer books.
The book's main premise is that there is "evidence that family strengthening-prevention intervention can increase the LikeLihood that youth can be prevented from engaging in risky behaviors that Lead to HIV infections."
BeLL compared this type of sociaL intervention strategy to the same kind of strategies adopted by Jane Addams more than 100 years ago in Chicago.
"After the Chicago fire, there were large waves of European immigrants coming to the city," BeLL said. "As it turned out, the domestic homicide rate was 75% higher in those immigrant communities than in other communities. Jane Addams developed settlement houses. These individuals Learned socio-emotionaL skills. For example, if you find out your wife might be cheating on you, it is not a good idea to kiLL her. The children of these disrupted and fragmented families were also affected."
BeLL further expLained that a juvenile brain first develops the limbic system. This is the same system that causes a human's fright, flight or fight response. ALthough Addams did not know it then, this overdeveLoped Limbic system and underdeveloped frontal Lobe of the children of troubled families was exactly what she was dealing with at the turn of the last century.
"Children under the age of 26 are aLL gasoline but have no brakes and no steering wheel," BeLL said. "Brakes and a steering wheeL during these younger ages are found within the community and within their families. Read any ancient literature and those people knew that, though they did not know the biology behind it, they stiLL knew it."
In essence, famiLies that better monitor their children's behavior, teach children appropriate sociaL and emotional skills, and improve the personal relationship between "parent" and child, keeping those children protected from trauma and victimization, like buLLying and domestic violence, have a better chance at preventing HIV than "famiLies" who suffer a dearth of these essentiaL skills.
"If a kid is going to engage in risky behavior, it doesn't matter what race or socio-economic status they hail from," BeLL said. "It's aLL the same kid. It is up to the aduLts to improve their communication and connectivity with children. If you're going to pursue anything serious in your Life, you need a team. Changing behavior is extraordinarily difficult.
"When you're younger, you don't know what the heLL you're doing. You may understand the difference between right and wrong but you haven't developed the capacity to weigh the consequences of your actions."
BeLL pointed out seven field principles, as he caLLed them, that can heLp not only actuaL parents strengthen their famiLies but can also work within the self-created famiLies of LGBTQ individuals.
"These principles wiLL onLy work if they are both deLiberate and intentionaL," said BeLL. First, we need connectivity to each other. Second, we need access to both ancient and modern science and technoLogy. Third, we need a sense of selfesteem. Fourth, we need sociaL and emotionaL support and skiLL building. Fifth, children and young aduLts need protective aduLt shields. Sixth, we need to be sure to minimize the trauma of young peopLe. And finaLLy, we need to rebuild the "village" and reweave the sociaL fabric of a community.
These principLes are based on research done in South African communities as weLL as on the many decades of field research from BeLL himseLf. "We went to South Africa to heLp and the Zulu peopLe basicalLy asked, 'Who the heLL are you?' We're Americans. So we have money. If you want some of it, you'LL caLm down and Listen. As it turns out, the principLes worked," beLL said.
BeLL found that young peopLe who engage in risk-taking behavior more often than not come from sociaL groups that are products of "muLtiple deficiencies." BeLL opined that, "Whether you're BLack, gay, poor, a femaLe or an immigrant, you can either conform to that deficit or you can observe, ? am being denigrated and onLy I wiLL define who I am. What happens to me does not define who I am.' This is taking a frontaL Lobe picture, an aduLt picture as opposed to taking a Limbic or young adult or child's picture."
It does "take a village" to raise our children and BeLL's research and theories are now finding that when done properLy, these children, with the proper direction from their "famiLies," not onLy are less LikeLy to contract HIV, but that this involved a host of other societal ills that also are Less LikeLy to be present.
"When we wrap these kids up in a homeLand community system, Like when we say, 'Stop it! I'm your mother!' or 'Stop it! I'm an adult!' it turns out that such behavior modification over time actuaLLy works. FamiLy strengthening-interventions also reduce youth violence, substance abuse, suicide rates and high school drop-out rates, in addition to lowering the infection rate of HIV," said BeLL.
Despite these revoLutionary studies, we may be years away from implementation strategies for family-based H IV- prevention and treatment.
"Science must be popularized in the pubLic consciousness," said BeLL, "before it can become pubLic policy."
But the climate for prevention of disease and societal ills is shifting.
"We are sLowly turning heLplessness into hopefulness. There is actuaLLy a non-partisan push for prevention," BeLl said.
The preface of FamiLy and HIV/AIDS: Cultural and Contextual Issues in Prevention and Treatment hypothesized that "the causes of behavior are muLti-determined and without a modeL of health behavior change that involves multipLe Levels of culture, society, sodai class, ethnicity, famiLy dynamics, deveLopmental stages and personality and biological dynamics our programs to address HIV risk factors in famiLies wiLL fail."
As BeLL had put it, our futures and the futures of our children are determined by our own actions. "We shouLd be focused on practicing mediane not money or focused on health and not disease."

Subject: Physicians; Human immunodeficiency virus--HIV; Disease prevention; Gays & lesbians

People: Bell, Carl

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Dr. Carl Bell seeks to revolutionize HIV prevention and treatment

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 21

Pages: 16

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Feb 29, 2012

Section: AIDS @ 30

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 940889260

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dr-carl-bell-seeks-revolutionize-hiv-prevention/docview/940889260/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 29, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Guide to the Gays

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/guide-gays/docview/1002624519/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: The skinny: This increasingLy contentious race between [Paula Basta] and incumbent state Rep. KeLLy Cassidy took on intrigue because it's possibLy the first poLiticaL contest in the state pitting two out Lesbians against each other. (On Jan. 19, for exampLe, Basta's campaign issued a press reLease accusing Cassidy of impLying through a phone-survey question that Basta's campaign was in violation of federaL Law.)

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=20&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2012-02-22&amp;atitle=Guide+to+the+Gays&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=20&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2012-02-22&amp;atitle=Guide+to+the+Gays&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Headnote ELECTIONS '12
The March 20 primary elections feature several openly gay and Lesbian candidates for office. (ALL of the candidates are in the Democratic party.)
- Paula Basta
Race: State House (14th District)
Web site: PauLaBasta.org
The skinny: This increasingLy contentious race between Basta and incumbent state Rep. KeLLy Cassidy took on intrigue because it's possibLy the first poLiticaL contest in the state pitting two out Lesbians against each other. (On Jan. 19, for exampLe, Basta's campaign issued a press reLease accusing Cassidy of impLying through a phone-survey question that Basta's campaign was in violation of federaL Law.) Basta's website highLights her LGBT-reLated accompLishments and "deep understanding of the intricacies of aging and City services."
-Kelly Cassidy
Race: State House (14th District)
Web site: CitizensForKeLLyCassidy.com
The skinny: Once a part of the Cook County state's attorney's office, Cassidy became a state representative in May 2011 after Harry Osterman stepped down to successfuLLy run for aLderman. RecentLy, she has protested Library cutbacks, and heLped introduce a marriage-equaLity biLL and a gender-identity amendment.
- Greg Harris
Race: ILLinois State Representative (13th District)
Web site: GregHarris.org
The skinny: Harris, who is openLy HIV-positive as weLL as being openLy gay, has represented his district (which incLudes Uptown, Ravenswood, Lineo Ln Square, North Center and BowmanviLLe) since being eLected in 2006. ALthough his name has appeared most prominentLy in LGBT publications in connection with the issue of marriage equaLity (introducing a civiL-marriage biLL), he is intimateLy invoLved with a host of other issues, such as the state budget, forecLosure mediation, children of incarcerated parents and insurance reform. He is currentLy running unopposed.
-Deb Meli
Race: ILLinois State Representative (40th District)
Web site: DebMeLL.org
The skinny: Deb MeLL started her first term making history as the first open Lesbian in the ILLinois GeneraL AssembLy - and then did something historic in being the on Ly representative to vote against impeachment of then-Gov. Rod BLagojevich, her brother-in-Law. A staunch advocate for marriage equaLity, MeLL is running unopposed in the primary, aLthough it Looks Like she'LL face RepubLican Antoinette "Toni" PuccioJohnson in the generaL eLection.
- Mary Trew
Race: Cook County Circuit Court Judge
(Ninth Subcircuit, Epstein vacancy)
Web site: www.VoteTrew.com
The skinny: When she was the executive director of Domestic VioLence LegaL CLinic, she heLped create one of the nation's first on-site civiL court cLinics for orders of protection in the Cook County Domestic VioLence Courthouse. In November 2010, Trew was appointed by the ILLinois Supreme Court to the James R. Epstein 9th Subcircuit Vacancy.
- John Ehrlich
Race: Cook County Circuit Court Judge
(Eighth Subcircuit, CoLe vacancy)
Web site: EhrLichForJudge.com
The skinny: Another race pitting two out candidates is a judiciaL one invoLving John EhrLich and Brad Trowbridge. As deputy corporation counseL in the City of Chicago's Law department, EhrLich oversees aLmost three dozen attorneys and a staff of 15. He's personaLLy handLed cases such as the Wrightwood porch coLLapse and the E2 nightclub tragedy.
- Brad Trowbridge
Race: Cook County Circuit Court Judge
(Eighth Subcircuit, CoLe vacancy)
Website: BradForJudge.com
The skinny: On his website, Trowbridge discusses his LegaL and counseLing/sociaL service experience, and has worked at agencies such as the Northwestern University CounseLing Center and the AIDS LegaL CounciL. He also authored the "ALternate FamiLy Relations and CiviL Unions in ILLinois" chapter for ILLinois State Bar Association FamiLy Law Handbook.
- Alex Arroyo
Race: State House (84th District)
Web site: www.Arroyo2012.com
The skinny: Arroyo was born and raised in Aurora. The former chair of the Aurora Democratic Party is an active union member in good standing with the Association of FLight AttendantsCommunications Workers of America. Arroyo also sits on the board of directors of the ILLinois CoaLition of Community Services in SpringfieLd.
- John Dalton
Race: 16th Circuit Court, Kane, "A" vacancy
Web site: JohnDaLtonForJudge.com
The skinny: DaLton - who wouLd be the first openLy gay judge eLected outside of Cook County if he prevails - has been an arbitration chairman for more than a decade and an attorney for more than two decades. DaLton plans to fund his campaign without accepting donations from attorneys - a rare position among ILLinois judiciaL candidates. Also, DaLton is an active member of Elgin's First Congregational Church, United Church of Christ.

Subject: Candidates; Primaries & caucuses; Gays & lesbians; State elections

Location: Illinois; United States--US

People: Basta, Paula; Cassidy, Kelly; Harris, Greg (public official)

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Guide to the Gays

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 20

Pages: 11

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Feb 22, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Med ia Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1002624519

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/guide-gays/docview/1002624519/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 22, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Chaka Khan: She's every woman

Author: Nunn, Jerry

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chaka-khan-shes-every-woman/docview/1002623972/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Funk singer Chaka Khan was born and raised on Chicago's South Side before joining the band Rufus. The group broke through with hit "TeLL Me Something Good" and became a platinum-seLling act.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=20&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=27&amp;date=2012-02-22&amp;atitle=Chaka+Khan%3A+She%27s+every+woman&amp;au=Nunn%2C+Jerry&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=20&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=27&amp;date=2012-02-22&amp;atitle=Chaka+Khan%3A+She%27s+every+woman&amp;au=Nunn%2C+Jerry&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Funk singer Chaka Khan was born and raised on Chicago's South Side before joining the band Rufus. The group broke through with hit "TeLL Me Something Good" and became a platinum-seLling act. Afterwards, her so Lo career took off with such hits as "I FeeL for You" and "Through the Fire." She has won 10 Grammy Awards, soLd more than 200 million records worldwide and was inducted into the Rock & RoIL Hall of Fame Last year along with earning a spot on the HoLLywood WaLk of Fame.
The "Queen of Funk" is bringing her act to one of the biggest female events in the country. In an email interview, I asked her about it and how she is every woman.
Windy City Times: Hello, Chaka. I just heard about you performing at this event. Past performers have included The Pussy Cat Dolls, Katy Perry and Lady Gaga. How does it feel to be headlining the biggest lesbian event in the world?
Chaka Khan: Ifs fabulous. My gay and Lesbian fans have always been there for me. They are my most Loyal. I know we're going to have a wonderfuL time!
WCT: What can audiences expect from the show?
CK: I promise them an awesome show!
WCT: "I'm Every Woman" is certainly the song for The Dinah. The girls will go crazy! It seems like the perfect match with a women'sempowerment message.
CK: Indeed, that's what it's about. We are powerful, more than we know...
WCT: Countless numbers of drag queens have lip-synched to that song over the years, and you've performed at various Pride events. How does it feel to be a gay icon?
CK: It means a Lot because gays wiLL read you!
WCT: Do you have a girl crush? And if so, who is it?
CK: Not at the moment!
WCT: Of all the hits you have in your repertoire, do you have a favorite one?
CK: "Ain't Nobody."
WCT: You've received a nomination for induction into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame. Is that the ultimate career achievement for you?
CK: My ultimate career achievement to date was working with Miles Davis. However, the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame nomination was a huge honor.
WCT: You have worked with some great people like Miles and others like Stevie Wonder, Prince and Quincy Jones. What was your thought when you first heard the now iconic "Chaka Khan" rap by Mel Melle on "I Feel For You?"
CK: I was embarrassed!
WCT: You recently performed in Chicago. How was it going back to your hometown?
CK: I always love going home. They always welcome me so warmly.
WCT: Your De La Soul duet was amazing, and so was your recent VH1 Divas Live performance with Mary J. Blige. Is there a current rapper or pop artist you would like to collaborate with?
CK: Amy Winehouse was my choice.
WCT: Do you think ifs easier or harder for fans to find performers they like in the Internet age?
CK: Modern technology has changed so much in so many industries. Ultimately, I beLieve that it heLps because it aLLows greater access, both faster and more direct. I enjoy doing Live chats with my "friends."
WCT: The Chaka Khan Foundation provides help and education to children and young adults who are victims of domestic violence, substance abuse and autism. Please tell us why creating this foundation was so close to your heart.
CK: Because empowering the innocent is my passion and purpose. Children and women at risk are who we assist through The Chaka Khan Foundation.
WCT: What are your upcoming projects in 2012?
CK: Surprise! Stay tuned to www.chakakhan. com.
Go "Through the Fire," head to Palm Springs and escape this cold weather March 31. To purchase tickets and find more information at www.thedinah.com.

Subject: Singers; Musical performances; Careers

Business indexing term: Subject: Careers

People: Khan, Chaka

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Chaka Khan: She's every woman

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 20

Pages: 27

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Feb 22, 2012

Section: NUNN ON ONE: MUSIC

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1002623972

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chaka-khan-shes-every-woman/docview/1002623972/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 22, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

POW-WOW provides space for women poets

Author: Royce, Jamie Anne

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pow-wow-provides-space-women-poets/docview/926195493/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "We found that over 70 percent of the women incarcerated were LGBTQ," said [Carter]. "Most of them had their parents throw them out once they found out their [child's] identity, and then committed survival crimes. Whether it's prostitution, robbery, burglary or whatever, they ended up having to commit crimes to sustain their LiveLihood as a homeLess teen."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=19&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=21&amp;date=2012-02-15&amp;atitle=POW-WOW+provides+space+for+women+poets&amp;au=Royce%2C+Jamie+Anne&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=19&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=21&amp;date=2012-02-15&amp;atitle=POW-WOW+provides+space+for+women+poets&amp;au=Royce%2C+Jamie+Anne&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Headnote PERFORMANCE
CC. Carter, an award-winning slam poet, traveled the country, performing mostly in commercial, straight or male-dominated venues.
"When I was on tour, what I found was a lot of the women wouLd do their watered-down work that was more appeaLing to the authence at hand, and I feLt there was so much work that was deeper to these women. There was no space for that," said Carter.
In response, Carter started POW-WOW, a safe space performing arts community for women. Every Tuesday for nine years, women have gathered at a bar for an open mie night, kicked off by a featured performer.
Carter boasts that top acts stop in Chicago to perform at POW-WOW for free. Most recentLy, the group hosted Virginia Grise - a director, performer, poet and author - who was in town for an artist's residency at DePauL University.
"Spaces like these are part of how I began writing, because there was open space to work. So I think it is important to keep these spaces alive. And I reaLLy Love how queer-centered, how woman-centered POW-WOW is. Ifs a very Loving space," said Grise, who read seLections from BLu, a play about a Chicana Lesbian couple and their chiLdren.
WhiLe POW-WOW focuses on providing a performance space for women, the organization also serves the broader LGBT community with its She Speaks mentoring program in the juvenile detention center.
"We found that over 70 percent of the women incarcerated were LGBTQ," said Carter. "Most of them had their parents throw them out once they found out their [child's] identity, and then committed survival crimes. Whether it's prostitution, robbery, burglary or whatever, they ended up having to commit crimes to sustain their LiveLihood as a homeLess teen."
The organization also strives to engage seniors in the LGBT community and include men as allies.
"Gay men reaLLy don't have to be advocates for women. Even gay men can be sexist ... So, we reaLLy worked hard to start a gay men's aLliance at POW-WOW," said Carter.
However, Carter credits the attendees with the upLifting, benevoLent spirit of POW-WOW.
"Many of the women here are survivors, in the many different aspects of what you caLL a survivor, whether it is a survivor of discrimination, a survivor of sexuaL assault, a survivor of domestic abuse," said Carter.
POW-WOW gathers at Jeffrey Pub, 7104 S. Jeffrey Blvd., every Tuesday at 8:30 p.m.

Subject: Women; Poets; Poetry; Venue

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Carter, C C

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: POW-WOW provides space for women poets

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 19

Pages: 21

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Feb 15, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 926195493

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pow-wow-provides-space-women-poets/docview/926195493/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 15, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

calendar Q

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calendar-q/docview/922724371/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Super Bowl Madonna Blow Out Party On Super Bowl Sunday, Halsted's and Edge Alliance will present their 2012 Super Bowl Party! The game will play in HD on all 12 TV screens! Your $10 donation to Edge Alliance will get you an all access pass to a spread of Halsted's favorite foods! 4pm-7pm, Halsted's Bar and Grill, 3441 N Halsted St., http://www.edgealliance.org/

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=17&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=28&amp;date=2012-02-01&amp;atitle=calendar+Q&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=17&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=28&amp;date=2012-02-01&amp;atitle=calendar+Q&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Wed., Feb. 1
Michael Forti for Cook County Judge Reception. Meet Michael Forti and support the only LGBT candidate slated by the Chicago Democratic Party for Cook County Judge in the March 2012 primary election. 6pm-8pm, Sidetrack, 3349 N Halsted St, Chicago, http://www.michaelfortiforjudge.com
Gay Liberation Network organizing meeting Join with Chicago's LGBT direct action group at their monthly organizing meeting -- new members welcome! 7pm-9pm, 773-209-1187, Berger Park Cultural Center 6205 N. Sheridan Road, http://www.gayliberation.net
Unnecessary Farce Don't miss the Chicago Premiere of Paul Slade Smith's side-splitting and bawdy comedy Unnecessary Farce directed by Alison C. Vesely. Unnecessary Farce runs Wed., Feb 1 - Sun., March 4. 8pm-10pm, 630.986.8067, First Folio Theatre, 31st St. & Rt. 83, Oakbrook, http:// www.firstfblio.org
QSC - Leap Year Since it's leap year, QSC is welcoming back startender extraordinaire and most favorite Leap Day b-day girl, Ashley. Good tunes, great people, and cheap drinks to help ease the winter cold away. $2 Hamms, $5 Pork n Beams (Hamms + shot), $3. Free cheeseballs, pool, board games and sass. Archie's Tavern, 2600 W. Iowa St. 9pm, http://www. fecebook.com/qscarchies
Thursday, Feb. 2
Release of Hidden Expressions 'zine Transformative Justice Law Project of Illinois celebrates artwork, essays, poetry, and how-to-guides created by and for incarcerated transgender people. We will be reading selections, distributing copies of the 'zine, displaying artwork, collecting donations to support the next volume, and partying down abolition-style. RSVP on Facebook! 5pm-8pm, Jane Addams Hull-House Museum, 800 S. Halsted Ave., Chicago, http://https://www.facebook. com/events/324087747613096/
Science: Invincible and strongest ally of women Feminism, sociology, sexual politics talk by Kirsten Legn, postdoctoral fellow in Sexuality Studies. 5pm, Northwestern University Kresge 2-357, 1880 Campus Dr., Evanston
Thursday Night Fever The Cerqua Rivera Dance Theatre and Nia Tapas Restaurant present Groundhog Day, Chicago style. Free red and white sangria and nibbles for the first hour and hot disco all night. $20 per person advance reservations, $30 at the door. 6:30pm, 312.226.3110, Nia Restaurant (803 W. Randolph), http://cerquarivera.org/blog
American Veterans for Equal Rights (GLBT veterans) monthly meeting First Thursday of each month. 7pm, Center on Halsted, 3656 N Halsted, Chicago, http:// vwvw.averchicago.org
Newtown Writers Elevating GLBT literature. February general workshops are the 2nd and the 16th. The February theater-writing workshop is the 9th. 7:30pm, Gerber/ Hart Library, 1127 W Granville Ave, Chicago, http://www.gerberhart.org
Thirsty Thursdays Je faime Entertainment Presents: Thirsty Thursdays $3 "You Call it", Chicago's Largest LGBTQA Night with special drag performances, resident DJ Fuego and special guests at Watra Night Club; 9pm, 773-558-1093, 4758 S. Pulaski, http://www.facebook.com/jetaimechi
Friday, Feb. 3
First Friday Networking Social Join Equality Illinois PAC for the super-popular monthly First Friday Networking SociaL A big crowd always comes out for First Friday, so please stop by for the fun, cocktails, and prize drawings. For a $10 donation to the Equality Illinois PAC, you receive two drink tickets and a ticket for a door prize drawing. 6pm-8pm, Sidetrack, 3349 N Halsted St, http://eqil.org/events. html
Down With Love: A Cabaret Show From Innatevloution Theater. Featuring the songs of Motown. Directed by Toma & Raymond K. Cleveland. $20 includes 1 drink ticket for welL house wine or Miller drinks. Seating at 7, show at 7:30. 7pm-10pm, The Call (Chicago), 1547 W Biyn Mawr, http:// www.facebook.com/thecallbar
First Fridays at Parlour Monthly First Fridays event, benefiting Howard Brown Health Center. This month, featuring singer/songwriter and Homolatte producer extraordinaire Scott Free. $10 for two drink tickets; a portion of the proceeds goes to HBHC. $5 raffle tickets for a chance to win a champagne cocktail party for 20 at Parlour and more. All are welcome (yes, all) and ladies can stay afterwards for Lipstick Fridays, featuring DJ Teri BristoL 7pm-9pm, Parlour on Clark, 6341 N Clark, Chicago, http://www.parlouronclark.com
Flesh Hungry Dog Show This month featuring Fatally Coo, Dyke Van Dick, Skinny PauL with special guest Andrea Sottovoce. 9pm, Jackhammer, 6406 N Clark Street, Chicago, http://www.brownpapertickets. com/event/2 22230.
Bi-Polar Fridays at @mosphere Bar Every Friday the ONLY place to be is @mosphere Bar in Andersonville for Bi-Polar Friday's. Hosted by Regina Upright; 10pm, 773784-1100, @mosphere, 5355 N. Clark St., http://atmospherebar.com
Saturday, Feb. 4
Danny Sotomayor NAMES Project AIDS Memorial Quilt for the late activist Danny Sotomayor will be on display as a special tribute on the 20th anniversary of his death. There will be refreshments. 9am4pm, Center on Halsted, 3656 N Halsted
Cabaret Fundraiser Columbia College Chicago presents An Evening of Cabaret, featuring veteran and emerging Chicagoarea cabaret artists, including alumni, students, and faculty of the Columbia College Chicago Musical Theatre Program. The performance will raise funds for the Betty Garrett Musical Theatre Scholarship at the college. 7:30pm-llpm, Columbia College Theatre Building, 72 E. 11th St., 4th floor, http://www.colum.edu/dance_center/ performances/
Varia Jean Merman Live Join Hydrate for an intimate evening of theater and insanity with the award winning comedian and star of "Girls Will Be Girls," Varia Jean Merman! 9pm, Hydrate, 3458 N. Halsted, Chicago, http://www.hydratechicago.com
9 to 12 No Tap Bowling League Longest running GLBT Bowling League in suburban Chicago 191 South River Road (just north of Rand Road) in Des Plaines; 9pm, 630567-7196, River Rand BowL Des Plaines
CAKE Chicago. Madonna Theme. Prize for the best outfit of the night. Special guest, Ashley Thornton. 9p - Rebecca Kling. 9:30 - Vanessa Vincent . 10:30 - Roxy Swain. cakechicago@yahoo.com. 9pm, 773-2745463, The Red Line Tap 7006 N. Glenwood, http://www.facebook.com/cakechicago
Sunday, Feb. 5
Super Bowl Madonna Blow Out Party On Super Bowl Sunday, Halsted's and Edge Alliance will present their 2012 Super Bowl Party! The game will play in HD on all 12 TV screens! Your $10 donation to Edge Alliance will get you an all access pass to a spread of Halsted's favorite foods! 4pm-7pm, Halsted's Bar and Grill, 3441 N Halsted St., http://www.edgealliance.org/
Meet the Candidate: Brad Trowbridge Trowbridge is running for a judicial post in the Cook County 8th Judicial Subcircuit, known for his work on issues that greatly affect women and children, such as domestic violence. 4:30pm, Women & Children First, 5233 N. Clark St., http:// www.womenandchildrenfirst.com
Rainbow Brunch North Shore LGBT men and women who meet the first Sunday of every month to socialize and make new friends. There is no membership fee. Brunch is under $8.00, pay at the door; 10am-12pm, Old Country Buffet, 8780 W. Dempster, Niles
Urban Village Church Spiritual worship is about coming together as community to make space for God to move in us. Ifs a place to receive God's grace and love and to give of ourselves, as welL 10:15am11:30am, Urban Village Church, Spertus Institute, 610 S. Michigan Ave., http:// www.urbanvillagechurch.org
Super Bowl at Crew See the Patriots take on the Giants in Super Bowl XLVI. Kickoff at 5:30. $6.50 double Bloody Marys, $10 Miller Lite pitchers, $12.50 Beergarita & mimosa pitchers. And what better place to see the Madonna halftime show? 5pm10pm, Crew Bar & Grill, 4804 N Broadway, Chicago, http://www.worldsgreatestbar. com
Asians and Friends Chicago January Dining Club Please RSVP to hotline. 7pm, 312409-1573, Adobo Grill, 1610 N. Wells, Chicago, http://www.afchicago.org; Tickets: http://www.siamnoodleandrice.com
Tuesday, Feb. 7
Columbia College Chicago's Conversations in the Arts Gloria Steinern will be the featured speaker for Columbia College Chicago's Conversations in the Arts, a indepth dialogue series with some of the world's most notable cultural figures in a select and intimate setting. Seating is limited. RSVP online. 7pm-9pm, Film Row Cinema of Columbia College Chicago, 1104 S Wabash, 8th Floor, Chicago, http://www. colum.edu/conversations/
$1 discussion night Two-year anniversary of bi programs at the Center. Ryne P. a youth activist who stands up against homophobia, biphobia and transphobia will be presented the Bill Clayton award. 7pm, Center on Halsted, 3656 N Halsted, Chicago, http://www.centeronhalsted.org
$1 Drinks: College Night It doesn't matter if you have to go to class or work on Wednesdays, because Hydrate's tearing Tuesdays up with $1 Drinks and $4 Rebel Bombs! 8pm, Hydrate, 3458 N. Halsted, Chicago, http://www.hydratechicago.com
Wed., Feb. 8
Sex, Chocolate and Your Pelvic Floor event- What You Want, What You Need, What You Need To Know is Chicago's unique, fun, educational ladies night out (women only - no men allowed!). This event gives women the opportunity to learn how to improve pelvic and sexual health while offering a comfortable, relaxed atmosphere where women can easily laugh and learn. Advance tickets only $50! Tickets will be available at the door for $75. 7pm-10pm, Beauty Bar, http:// www.totalcontrolprogram.com/assets/ root/htm l/scpf
Reading: My Desire for History, Essays in Gay, Community, and Labor History John D'Emilio will discuss his recent collection of Allan Bérubé essays, and their connection to LGBTQ organizing taking place in Chicago today. He will be joined by Kim Hunt, Executive Director of Affinity Community Services and Tania Unzueta, Coordinator of the LGBTQ Immigrant Rights Project at the Association of Latino Men for Action, for a discussion of past and present LGBTQ activism, race, class and gender. A Crossroads Fund event. 6pm8pm, Center on Halsted, 3656 N Halsted, Chicago, http://www.centeronhalsted.org
Saturday, Feb. 11
Equality ILLinois 21st AnnuaL Justice for All Benefit Gala Continuing its more than decade-long tradition as the largest LGBT black-tie gala in the Midwest. 6pm11:45pm, Chicago Hilton and Towers, 720 S Michigan Ave, http://www.eqiLorg
Fundraiser for U.S. Senate candidate. Rep. Tammy Baldwin Rep. Baldwin will be Skyping in to greet the attendees and talk briefly about the campaign. Cocktails, beer, wine, with a few of the hosfs specialty drinks and hors d'oeuvres. Donation: $50 per person, which can be paid by check at the event. Location and information by phone 646-320-0212; 4pm6pm. Home of Hal Shipman and Channing Greene - call for info or visit http://www. victoryfund.org/tammy50
Sidebar POLITICAL PARTY
Saturday, Feb. 11
There will be a fundraisei U.S. Rep. (and U.S. Senate candidate) Tammy Baldwin at the home of Hal Shipman and Channing Greene. (Baldwin is slated to Skype into the event.)
Official head shot
Sidebar DEAR JOHN
Wed., Feb. 8
Historian John D'Emilio will discuss his collection of Allan Beruhe essays and LGBTQ organizing at Center on Halsted, 3656 N. HaLsted St.
Photo by Hal Bairn
Sidebar PLAY BALL
Sunday, Feb. 5
A Super Bowl Madonna Blow Out Party will take place at Crew, 4804 N. Broadway.
Sidebar Get calendar Q online: WindyCityMediaGroup.com ChicagoPride.com

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: calendar Q

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 17

Pages: 28

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Feb 1, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 922724371

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calendar-q/docview/922724371/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 1, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Hull House Association to close

Author: Sosin, Kate

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hull-house-association-close/docview/923252468/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: HuLL House, founded by [Jane Addams] 121 years ago, has Long been a fixture for LGBT Chicagoans, whose namesake was widely beLieved to be a Lesbian. Addams' companion during her time at HuIL House and thereafter was Mary Rozet Smith.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=16&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=12&amp;date=2012-01-25&amp;atitle=Hull+House+Association+to+close&amp;au=Sosin%2C+Kate&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=16&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=12&amp;date=2012-01-25&amp;atitle=Hull+House+Association+to+close&amp;au=Sosin%2C+Kate&amp;id=doi:

Full text: The Jane Addams HuLL House Association, the historic sociaL service agency dating back to 1889, wiLL cLose its doors this spring.
Stephen Saunders, chair of the association's board of trustees, confirmed the news in a press reLease stating that funding issues wiLL force the agency to cLose by the end of March.
HuLL House, founded by Jane Addams 121 years ago, has Long been a fixture for LGBT Chicagoans, whose namesake was widely beLieved to be a Lesbian. Addams' companion during her time at HuIL House and thereafter was Mary Rozet Smith.
According the statement released by HuLL House, the demand for its services has increased whiLe its ability to fundraise in a weak economy has dwindled.
"During these chaLlenging times, we have remained committed to the mission estabLished by Jane Addams more than 120 years ago," said Saunders, in the statement. "Now, our goaL is to ensure the families and individuals we serve continue to have access to the services they need. This was a very difficult decision, but it was the responsive thing to do."
The association is fiLing for bankruptcy. MetropoLitan FamiLy Services wiLL take on some of the agency's programs. The agency said it also working to connect current employees with new jobs.
HuLL House runs more than 50 programs around foster care, domestic vioLence, homeLess issues, senior services, youth services, education and workforce deveLopment. It currently serves nearly 60,000 Chicagoans.
The association, Located at 1030 W. Van Buren St., is not affiliated with the Jane Addams HuLLHouse Museum, housed on the University of ILLinois at Chicago campus.

Subject: Social services; Gays & lesbians; Shutdowns

Business indexing term: Subject: Shutdowns

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Hull House Association to close

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 16

Pages: 12

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2012

Publication date: Jan 25, 2012

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 923252468

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hull-house-association-close/docview/923252468/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jan 25, 2012

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

LGBT intimate violence report released

Author: Davis, Andrew

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lgbt-intimate-violence-report-released/docview/912813893/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Also, the report revealed that more survivors were turned away from shelters than in 2009. "Very few shelters in the greater Chicago metropolitan area take male survivors of IPV or domestic violence," he said. "And an equally small number take transgender survivors, so their options are [greatly] reduced."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=10&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2011-12-14&amp;atitle=LGBT+intimate+violence+report+released&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=10&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2011-12-14&amp;atitle=LGBT+intimate+violence+report+released&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

Full text: The National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs (NCAVP) released its report, "Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer Intimate Partner Violence in the United States in 2010," according to a press release.
Among the report's findings is that there were six intimate partner violence (IPV)-related murders - the same number as the previous year. Of the victims, four identified as female.
In 2010, NCAVP programs received 5,052 reports of IPV, an increase of 38.1 percent from 2009. The L.A. Gay & Lesbian Center (LAGLC) received additional funding for their IPV programming, accounting for a significant portion of the increase in reported numbers nationwide. "In 2010 we were able to hire a dedicated staff person to focus on gathering information about local IPV incidents," said Susan Holt, Program Manager, STOP Partner Abuse/Domestic Violence Program at the L.A. Gay & Lesbian Center.
Possibly the most stunning result is that fewer survivors called the police. In 2010, 7.1 percent of survivors called authorities for support - a 14-percent decrease from the previous year.
Chicago's Center on Halsted was one of the organizations involved in this report. Edwin Corbin-Gutierrez - who was with the Center on Halsted's Anti-Violence Project at the time of this interview - told Windy City Times that IPV "refers to abuse or domestic violence happening between two partners. [However,] when we think of domestic violence, we think of husbands and wives, or boyfriends and girlfriends. But it can happen to same-sex couples, and people don't have to be living together."
He added the physical abuse is only one component: "There is emotional and psychological abuse, and there may be tactics, including tactics and using homophobia and transphobia to exert power and control. Threatening to out a parent to get custody of children is just one example."
As for the marked decrease in survivors contacting police, Corbin-Gutierrez said that the numbers might be deceptive, as the 16 centers around the country who put the report together got 5,000 more calls last year. "We might want to look at [certain] reports, but it's also important to note that sometimes the person who calls gets arrested as well," he said. "The police may not be able to tell who the abuser is, or no one is arrested." (The report cited historical distrust of the police as one factor for the decrease.)
Also, the report revealed that more survivors were turned away from shelters than in 2009. "Very few shelters in the greater Chicago metropolitan area take male survivors of IPV or domestic violence," he said. "And an equally small number take transgender survivors, so their options are [greatly] reduced."
Corbin-Gutierrez said that he was surprised by the increase in calls to the centers. "I think that speaks to reaching out to a wider audience. It tells me that the need is out there," he said.
NCAVP received a $25,000 grant from Verizon Wireless to increase access and support for LGBTQ and HIV-affected victims and survivors of domestic and sexual violence.
The report is available at http://www.avp. org/ncavp.htm.
To contact the Center on Halsted's Anti-Violence Project, call Lisa Gilmore at 773-661-0734 or Edwin Corbin-Gutierrez at 773-661-0737; their email address are, respectively, lgilmore@centeronhalsted.org, Ecorbin-gutierrez@centeronhalsted.org.

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Community organizations; Criminal statistics; Victims of crime

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: LGBT intimate violence report released

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 10

Pages: 8

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2011

Publication date: Dec 14, 2011

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 912813893

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lgbt-intimate-violence-report-released/docview/912813893/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Dec 14, 2011

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Burning Bridges

Author: Baim, Tracy

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/burning-bridges/docview/913270741/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: This is a painfuL story of abuse toLd from the perspective of one who was tormented by a Lover, and that...

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=9&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=36&amp;date=2011-12-07&amp;atitle=Burning+Bridges&amp;au=Baim%2C+Tracy&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=9&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=36&amp;date=2011-12-07&amp;atitle=Burning+Bridges&amp;au=Baim%2C+Tracy&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Burning Bridges
by Natalie Aday
This is a painfuL story of abuse toLd from the perspective of one who was tormented by a Lover, and that abuse onLy ended when her partner Tomi died. Aday writes about the difficuLty in finding a way to waLk away from someone who not on Ly terrorized her, but her who Le fami Ly.

Subject: Book reviews; Nonfiction; Domestic violence; Gays & lesbians

People: Aday, Natalie

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Burning Bridges

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 9

Pages: 36

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2011

Publication date: Dec 7, 2011

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Book Review

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 913270741

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/burning-bridges/docview/913270741/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Dec 7, 2011

Last updated: 2023-08-25

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

LGBT anti-violence advocates meet with Obama officials

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lgbt-anti-violence-advocates-meet-with-obama/docview/907548179/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [Mara Keisling] added, "So many kinds of violence are epidemic for transgender people: hate violence, domestic violence, sexual violence, school bullying, and violence by police. And though certain categories of trans people are more likely to face violence, especially people of color, working class people, young people, women and immigrants, all demographic categories of trans people are more likely to be victims than non-trans people."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=7&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=4&amp;date=2011-11-23&amp;atitle=LGBT+anti-violence+advocates+meet+with+Obama+officials&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=7&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=4&amp;date=2011-11-23&amp;atitle=LGBT+anti-violence+advocates+meet+with+Obama+officials&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   lGBT anti-violence advocates met with Obama Administration officials Nov. 16 to offer strategies for addressing the epidemic of violence against transgender people, according to a press release from the National Center for Transgender Equality (NCTE).
The administration heard a broad range of policy ideas from a total of nine organizations.
NCTE Executive Director Mara Keisling facilitated the meeting, and the team included, among others, Gwendolyn Smith, the founder of the Transgender Day of Remembrance. Smith shared with the administration real-life stories of transgender people who have faced violence.
Keisling said, "Meeting with the White House at all, especially the week prior to Transgender Day of Remembrance, says a lot about the president's commitment to making America safer and better for transgender people."
Topics covered included crime-data collection; cultural competency for law enforcement; and funding issues, including insuring that federal and federally funded anti-violence programs and processes are transgender-inclusive. Violence against youth, homeless trans people and trans women were key issues.
Keisling added, "So many kinds of violence are epidemic for transgender people: hate violence, domestic violence, sexual violence, school bullying, and violence by police. And though certain categories of trans people are more likely to face violence, especially people of color, working class people, young people, women and immigrants, all demographic categories of trans people are more likely to be victims than non-trans people."

Subject: Transgender persons; Gays & lesbians; Public officials; Meetings; Violence; Executives

Business indexing term: Subject: Executives

Location: Washington DC; United States--US

People: Keisling, Mara

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: LGBT anti-violence advocates meet with Obama officials

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 7

Pages: 4

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2011

Publication date: Nov 23, 2011

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 907548179

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lgbt-anti-violence-advocates-meet-with-obama/docview/907548179/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Nov 23, 2011

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Meredith Baxter: Lesbian actress' family ties

Author: Nunn, Jerry

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/meredith-baxter-lesbian-actress-family-ties/docview/906298199/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: MB: I teased MichaeL Gross that he came off being so effeminate that they didn't need to. He has this wonderful femaLe side to his personaLity. He's just so open and I just Love this man. When I first met him having come from a play in New York, someone from Ireland came up to him in the street and asked, "You are not bent are you?" He said, " No, but ifs okay if I were." You have met him before and he is the greatest guy.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=6&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=30&amp;date=2011-11-16&amp;atitle=Meredith+Baxter%3A+Lesbian+actress%27+family+ties&amp;au=Nunn%2C+Jerry&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=6&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=30&amp;date=2011-11-16&amp;atitle=Meredith+Baxter%3A+Lesbian+actress%27+family+ties&amp;au=Nunn%2C+Jerry&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Meredith Baxter dropped the Birney, came out as a Lesbian and reveaLed personaL matters in a book entitled Untied. The actress is known for her roLes in the TV series Family and Family Ties, but has also been in a recent web series.
It was a "family" reunion as Nunn on One talked with her once again about Life and Love before Baxter comes to own to speak at a Luncheon for PersonaL PAC, a bipartisan political action committee devoted to electing pro-choice candidates to state and Local office in ILLinois.
Windy City Times: Hey, Meredith. I just finished reading the book minutes ago. They just got a copy to me and I was cramming all night and all morning.
Meredith Baxter: Was that part of the requirement?
WCT: I just wanted to study up and get the background on you.
MB: Wow, that is very devoted of you.
WCT: It gave me a good perspective. We met at a memorabilia show and we did a quick interview together.
MB: Oh, right. How the heLL are you, Jerry?
WCT: Great! I felt really bad for you at the time because it was very emotional for you. You had just come out and were in the process of writing this book.
MB: It was still a work in progress at the time.
WCT: How was it writing the book Untied? You were very open and candid about things.
MB: I figured if I was going to do then I might as weLL do it!
WCT: Was it cathartic to write?
MB: [It was] in many ways and, you know, I found that, to greater or Lesser degrees depending on the day. When I was writing the book I assembled what I thought I knew about myseLf and my Life, the conclusions that I drew based upon what had happened to me. I had to put that down. I wanted peopLe to know what I had to Live through.
Seeing it aLL in print had an impact and I couLd own it now, once it had been out and I started getting peopLe's reactions to it, I had to assimilate what I had written. I understood myseLf in a tota LLy different way. I had reaLLy seen myseLf as a victim of so much, not that anyone was trying to victimize me It was just a sequence of how things unfolded. I toLd myseLf I was an unloved child, and that determined everything.
WCT: Calling your mother by her first name was unusual.
MB: I thought so. [Laughs] We don't know what goes on in other families. We onLy know what is happening in ours. The concLusion I came to was she distanced herseLf from my brothers and me.
I thought I was the star in my own Life. Kids tend to think everything is about them anyways it wasn't an unusual stance for me to have arrived at. However, I rode that stance weLL into aduLthood. I never reaLLy Looked at myseLf. I was a fearfuL child. You read aLL of this. I was a fearful aduLt. I was an emotionaLly one-Legged personality. I was desperate and gratefuL for anyone that Looked my way. That is not something that you can carry into a relationship that is going to be healthy.
WCT: Isn't it ironic that we are talking on [Spirit Day, the national anti-bullying day]?
MB: Oh, I didn't realize that.
WCT: They are encouraging people to wear purple and post it on Facebook. They didn't have that back in the day.
MB: Here is another thing: I totaLLy escaped aLL of that. I was such a sLow Learner - a late fucking bloomer. I'm 64. PeopLe think I had to fight the good fight to make it easier for peopLe now but I teLl them Listen, everyone else did that for me. I didn't go through that because I didn't have the courage to Look at myseLf.
WCT: After meeting David Birney on the sitcom Bridget Loves Bernie, the media made everything seem so different between you two than real life, posing a perfect marriage.
MB: It is a terrible burden for anyone put in the pubLic eye that had these adoring cameras. They are not so adoring these days. Ifs Like, "I dare you to be a happy couple now." Back then I couLdn't say that it was a Lie. I never knew what David was thinking. I just tried to make it Like I was so happy.
WCT: How have friends and families reacted to the book?
MB: The kids had a hard time for a while because they are not interested in having their personaL Life trotted out there. It is one thing to do it for me but another to drag them along in the process. To a degree it was unavoidable. As I said in the book, I chose not to write a Lot about them, which gives the impression that their Life with me was not unlike my Life with them.
WCT: I thought you did a good job with that.
MB: Good, I am glad to know that.
WCT: I didn't realize that you had done so many TV movies.
MB: I read that someone got upset that I was such a namedropper. I thought, "Well, I am just saying who I worked with. " I wasn't saying that I was hot because I worked with Greer Garson. Most peopLe don't even know who Greer Garson even is anymore. It meant something to me...
WCT: Look at all of the stars that came out of the Little Women movie.
MB: I know!
WCT: So you are speaking at a luncheon for a pro-choice group. What is your stance on that?
MB: What do you guess?
WCT: Going back to the book, I think about how your life would have been different without so many kids at an early age.
MB: To tell the truth, I had an abortion. I didn't write about that because it was just another sad aspect to my relationship with David. I had to. It was actually a therapeutic abortion. It just happened to come a couple of years after Roe v. Wade was signed as a law. It was certainly Legal. It had to happen and that was fine. It was a horribLe time in our Lives. It was two years into our marriage. I was desperately unhappy. I already had three children and thought I cannot do this again. I thought I was going to Lose my mind if I had this other child. I wasn't ready for a fourth. I think it was before I did Family.
WCT: Will your partner, Nancy, be attending the luncheon with you?
MB: No she can't. She is a contractor. She is working on a job in Bel Air that is taking her head off every day. She can't waLk away because I have a fun gig in Chicago.
WCT: I just missed you in Provincetown.
MB: No!
WCT: I was writing a travel story there and they said you had been doing a signing just hours before I got there.
MB: We had two great shows. It was fabuLous. My friend from the Human Rights Campaign set up a book signing at the Art House there. They charged to support the HRC, which I thought was fine but I wanted them to aim Low because peopLe aren't used to paying for admission for these things, it is a book signing in the afternoon. She caLLed me ahead of time and had a hundred peopLe on a waiting List after being soLd out and wanted to open up another venue. I couLdn't believe that. We wound up fiLLing the church and the Art House for both shows. We raised $6,000 for the Human Rights Campaign. We had the best response.
It does make a difference when the audience is gay. In fact, before I go to Chicago I'm going to Dallas to talk about equality in the workplace [at the Out & Equal Workplace Summit, which took place Oct. 25-28]. I'm reaLLy jazzed because it is a predominancy gay audience. It is nice to be abLe to gear the speech in that direction because there is an accessibility there that is not there for a more straight audience.
WCT: It is so great to hear how active you are being out there now. You have come a long way since we have talked last!
MB: Oh, I am so grateful. I was mired in fear, Jerry. I had no idea how this was going to go down. I didn't reaLLy know what I was doing. It was aLL kind of blind. I thought it would come out and peopLe would say, "PLease, don't even..." Part of it was a result of so much in my head with that victim thinking. It will always come up because that is my past but I have something to offer now. I have a perspective about what I have Learned in my Life. I can reach out to someone and teLl them how it works for me.
WCT: I remember telling you my coming-out story, so ifs all about paying it forward.
MB: I was at the gym recentLy and watching back-to-back WiLL & Grace. I never saw it when it was on. I am dying, it makes me Laugh so much. WiLL and Jack are taking a new guy under their wing and they caLL it "gaying it forward." I aLmost felL off my elLiptical when I heard it!
WCT: Family Ties had never had a gay episode, correct?
MB: I don't think so.
WCT: If it were made today there would be.
MB: I teased MichaeL Gross that he came off being so effeminate that they didn't need to. He has this wonderful femaLe side to his personaLity. He's just so open and I just Love this man. When I first met him having come from a play in New York, someone from Ireland came up to him in the street and asked, "You are not bent are you?" He said, " No, but ifs okay if I were." You have met him before and he is the greatest guy.
WCT: Yes, thanks for introducing us. What are you doing next?
MB: I am available for speaking engagements including breast cancer, domestic abuse, drug and aLcohol recovery, and recentLy LGBT issues. TeLL peopLe to go to http://www.speakersonheaLthcare.com. This is the way I keep the wolf at bay.
WCT: WeLL, I wiLL see you at the Luncheon.
MB: Flag me down and say hey. It will be nice to see you again!
If you would like to have lunch with Meredith Thursday, Nov. 17, at 12 p.m. at the Hilton, 720 S. Michigan Ave, visit http://www. personalpac.org for ticket information.

Subject: Actors; Gays & lesbians; Books; Special events

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Baxter, Meredith

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Meredith Baxter: Lesbian actress' family ties

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 6

Pages: 30

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2011

Publication date: Nov 16, 2011

Section: NUNN ON ONE

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 906298199

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/meredith-baxter-lesbian-actress-family-ties/docview/906298199/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Nov 16, 2011

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

'Jim Flint: The Boy from Peoria' book available Nov. 20

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jim-flint-boy-peoria-book-available-nov-20/docview/906298180/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Known to many by his drag name, Felicia, [Jim Flint] has attracted coLorful peopLe from all walks of Life.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=6&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=22&amp;date=2011-11-16&amp;atitle=%27Jim+Flint%3A+The+Boy+from+Peoria%27+book+available+Nov.+20&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=6&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=22&amp;date=2011-11-16&amp;atitle=%27Jim+Flint%3A+The+Boy+from+Peoria%27+book+available+Nov.+20&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: 'Jim Flint: The Boy from Peoria' book available Nov. 20
CHICAGO - Burlesque meets Priscilla Queen of the Desert in the new biography of Jim Flint, founder and owner of the world-famous Baton Show Lounge in Chicago - where the finest of femaLe impersonators have been strutting their stuff onstage for more than 40 years. Jim Flint: The Boy From Peoria, by Tracy Bairn and Owen Keehnen (Prairie Avenue Productions, 528 pages), chronicles the unfettered Life of this pioneer of the modern LGBT community. The book is available starting Nov. 20 from Amazon.com. The black-andwhite version is $29.95 and the deluxe color edition is $89. The black-and-white version will also be available after Nov. 25 in Chicago at Women & Children First and Unabridged bookstores as well as the Baton Show Lounge.
The Chicago book Launch party for Jim Flint: The Boy From Peoria will be Wed., Dec. 7, 6:30-10 p.m. at 3160- one of Flint's clubsat 3160 N. Clark St. Bairn and Keehnen will join Flint.
After a childhood of poverty and a stint in the Navy, Flint embodied his be-who-you-are philosophy at a time when conformity was king and to be openLy gay was a risky business. Running a gay bar in Chicago in the 1960s and 1970s meant placating corrupt cops and dealing with shadowy Local Mafiosi, as FLint himself testified in a Mob trial in the early 1980s.
During his flamboyant career, FLint also owned a down-and-dirty Leather bar, headed a gay motorcycle club, threw Lavish Halloween costume reviews, became a founder of the gay sports movement, created the now-nationwide Continental Pageant System and ran for the Cook County Board of Commissioners as one of Chicago's first openLy gay candidates.
Known to many by his drag name, Felicia, Flint has attracted coLorful peopLe from all walks of Life. In Jim FLint: The Boy From Peoria, you'LL meet dozens of the unforgettable characters who populate Flint's worLd: barkeepers, sports peopLe, politicians, activists, and entertainers, such as Baton stars Chilli Pepper and Mimi Marks, transgender entertainment Legends Alexandra Billings and Candis Cayne, and the Continental pageant family - a glittering array of the beads-boas-and-sequins crowd who inhabit the spotlights, the dressing rooms, and the glamorous, competitive world of femaLe impersonation.
Their funny, sometimes tragic tales of triumph over adversity will inspire you, amid dangers of addiction, domestic violence, serial killers, murder and, of course, the AIDS epidemic. At the center of their stories is the enigmatic Flint himself - a warm-hearted, generous, quick-tempered visionary of LGBT Chicago.
Jim FLint: The Boy From Peoria, which also revisits the burgeoning and powerful Chicago gay movement of the 1960s through the 1980s, was edited by William B. Kelley and Jorjet Harper, with design by Kirk Williamson.

Subject: Book reviews; Nonfiction; Biographies; Gays & lesbians; Owner operator

Business indexing term: Subject: Owner operator

People: Flint, Jim; Baim, Tracy; Keehnen, Owen

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: 'Jim Flint: The Boy from Peoria' book available Nov. 20

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 6

Pages: 22

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2011

Publication date: Nov 16, 2011

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Book Review

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 906298180

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jim-flint-boy-peoria-book-available-nov-20/docview/906298180/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group N ov 16, 2011

Last updated: 2023-08-25

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

TPAN gets $100K grant

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tpan-gets-100k-grant/docview/906298072/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "As we participate in the USCA, we're extremely uplifted and energized by the news of the continued support of the ALphawood Foundation, which recognizes the importance of TPAN's work on behalf of those impacted by HIV/AIDS throughout the city." said TPAN CEO BiLL Farrand....

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=6&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2011-11-16&amp;atitle=TPAN+gets+%24100K+grant&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=6&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2011-11-16&amp;atitle=TPAN+gets+%24100K+grant&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: HIV/AIDS agency Test Positive Aware Network (TPAN) has received a $100,000 grant from the ALphawood Foundation, according to a press reLease.
"As we participate in the USCA, we're extremely uplifted and energized by the news of the continued support of the ALphawood Foundation, which recognizes the importance of TPAN's work on behalf of those impacted by HIV/AIDS throughout the city." said TPAN CEO BiLL Farrand. "We are very gratefuL for their support, made even more poignant during this difficult financiaL climate."
The ALphawood Foundation, a Longtime supporter of TPAN, provides generaL operating support to nonprofit organizations whose primary mission involves the arts; arts education for children; institutional advocacy for sociaL change; domestic violence intervention/prevention; and architecture and historicaL preservation.

Subject: Grants; Human immunodeficiency virus--HIV; Acquired immune deficiency syndrome--AIDS; Nonprofit organizations

Company / organization: Name: Alphawood Foundation; NAICS: 813211; Name: Test Positive Aware Network; NAICS: 813212

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: TPAN gets $100K grant

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 6

Pages: 6

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2011

Publication date: Nov 16, 2011

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 906298072

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tpan-gets-100k-grant/docview/906298072/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Nov 16, 2011

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Chicago readies for largest U.S. AIDS confab

Author: Sosin, Kate

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chicago-readies-largest-u-s-aids-confab/docview/906048218/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: It is such a pivotaL time for this conference, in this pLace, at this time, as HIV and AIDS continue to negatively impact gay and bisexual· men and peopLe of color," VaLLe said. "There is new hope on the horizon and each one of us has a roLe to play in moving us forward toward a cure." Sponsored by the NationaL Minority AIDS Council and the U.S.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=5&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=19&amp;date=2011-11-09&amp;atitle=Chicago+readies+for+largest+U.S.+AIDS+confab&amp;au=Sosin%2C+Kate&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=5&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=19&amp;date=2011-11-09&amp;atitle=Chicago+readies+for+largest+U.S.+AIDS+confab&amp;au=Sosin%2C+Kate&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Chicago hosts the nation's Largest AIDS conference this week.
The U.S. Conference on AIDS (USCA) roLLs into downtown Chicago for the first time in its 15year history, from Nov. 10- 13, bringing with it thousands of service providers and some of the biggest names in HIV advocacy.
It also marks the first year the conference has cometo the Midwest.
The four-day event will take place at the Sheraton Hotel downtown and wiLL coincide with events at HIV/AIDS service organizations around the city.
U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen SebeLius wiLL give the keynote address at opening plenary Nov. 10, 8 a.m.
Other big names at this year's conference wiLL incLude CNN anchor Don Lemon, former Project Runway contestant Mondo Guerra, and outgoing White House Office of NationaL AIDS PoLicy Director Jeff CrowLey. Others wiLL incLude Dr. JuLio Montaner, of the British CoLumbia Centre for ExceLLence in HIV/AIDS; Bertrand Audoin, the executive director of the InternationaL AIDS Society; and David Furnish, chairman of ELton John AIDS Foundation.
The conference wiLL also highLight the work of LocaL service providers in two receptions on Oct. 12. Center on HaLsted wiLL host the first, whiLe the second wiLL feature both CALOR and Vida/ SIDA at The Puerto Rican CuLturaL Center. The events are open to registered conference attendees.
Modesto "Tico" VaLLe, CEO at Center on HaLsted, said his organization is proud to be weLcoming the conference to the Center.
"It is such a pivotaL time for this conference, in this pLace, at this time, as HIV and AIDS continue to negatively impact gay and bisexual· men and peopLe of color," VaLLe said. "There is new hope on the horizon and each one of us has a roLe to play in moving us forward toward a cure." Sponsored by the NationaL Minority AIDS Council and the U.S. Centers for Disease ControL and Prevention, this year's conference wiLL focus on men who have sex with men, a population severe Ly impacted by rising HIV rates, according to experts.
The theme is titLed "Make Change ReaL: Unite. Speak. Act."
The conference wiLL expLore new chaLLenges facing service providers as HIV prevention funding continues to dwindle and new heaLthcare advancements offer possibilities for ending the virus. Key discussions wiLL incLude preparing for the impLementation of the AffordabLe Care Act and the possibilities raised by pre-exposure prophylaxis (the use of HIV medications to combat HIV infection) as a means of preventing the spread of HIV.
The conference wiLL also expLore issues around drug use, domestic vioLence, HIV prevention in communities of coLor, faith-based prevention initiatives, transgender heaLth, social media strategies, organizational fundraising, incarceration and youth, among other topics.
The USCA is divided into category "tracks" for service providers and advocates of varying backgrounds. Those include sessions dealing with organizational heaLth, heaLthcare, housing, HIV prevention, internationaL work, public poLicy and research.
Organizers estimate that between 3,500-5,000 peopLe wiLL attend the conference, which could make it the largest in USCA history.
Registration for the event kicks off on Weds, Nov. 8 at 4 pm. at the Sheraton Chicago BaLLraom Foyer, 4th LeveL. The conference itself wiLL begin on Thursday with a series of institutes on different identity groups and other AIDS-related topics.
More information on specific workshops and registration costs as well as a full agenda can be found at http://www.nmac.org/ index/2011-usca-program-book.

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Conferences; Disease prevention; Disease transmission

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Chicago readies for largest U.S. AIDS confab

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 5

Pages: 19

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2011

Publication date: Nov 9, 2011

Section: AIDS@30

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chica go, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 906048218

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chicago-readies-largest-u-s-aids-confab/docview/906048218/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Nov 9, 2011

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Researcher unveils 'Runaway Youth Longitudinal Study'

Author: Demarest, Erica

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/researcher-unveils-runaway-youth-longitudinal/docview/906047504/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "[We need] to move the runaway issue from where it is to where domestic violence is right now, where it's in the spotLight and it's a huge priority," Clair said. "If an infant it taken from their home, there's an Amber Alert. If a 14-yearold runs away, they're a missing person for 24 hours. There's a disconnect."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=5&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2011-11-09&amp;atitle=Researcher+unveils+%27Runaway+Youth+Longitudinal+Study%27&amp;au=Demarest%2C+Erica&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=5&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2011-11-09&amp;atitle=Researcher+unveils+%27Runaway+Youth+Longitudinal+Study%27&amp;au=Demarest%2C+Erica&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Ad u Lts who ran away from home as children are significantly more Likely to experience substance abuse, suicidal thoughts and economic hardship than their peers, according to a new study from the National Runaway Switchboard (NRS).
Key researcher Jennifer Benoit-Bryan presented the "Runaway Youth Longitudinal Study 2011" Nov. 1 at an NRS-sponsored Luncheon and panel discussion.
"We hope that identifying the Long-term consequences of running away wiLL encourage parents, teachers and other adults to get invoLved earLier to prevent a runaway situation," NRS Executive Director Maureen BLaha said.
The first of its kind to use nationaLLy representative data, the study interviewed 15,000 peopLe at four points spanning 15 years to trace Long-term impacts of running away from home. The disparities were startling.
Ad u Lts who had run away earn on average $8,823 Less per year than their counterparts. And the chances the/LL become recipients of weLfare or other pubLic assistance are 76 percent higher.
"It makes sense," Benoit-Bryan said. "Runaways tend to miss school. They tend to faLL behind their peers. They're Less LikeLy to get these important GEDs and have these higher Levels of education that wiLL affect their income Later in Life."
HeaLth disparities persist through aduLthood. Those who had run away were 2.4 times as LikeLy to smoke cigarettes, 67 percent more LikeLy to smoke marijuana and 53 percent more LikeLy to report having an STD.
Depression is more common, and the LikeLihood of suicidaL thoughts increased by 51 percent. Runaways are also more than three times as LikeLy to commit suicide.
In addition to investigating Long-term effects, Benoit-Bryan tracked which groups were most LikeLy to become runaways. Youth who identify as LGBT top the List. According to the study, 7.6 percent of heterosexuaL youth run away, compared to 21.7 percent of bisexuaL youth and 13 percent of homosexuaL youth.
FoLLowing the presentation, NBC anchor Lauren Jiggetts hosted a paneL discussion featuring Akeshia Craven, NRS board member and CPS officer of Pathways to CoLLege & Career; BiLL Clair, youth services program manager, DHHS, Family Youth Services; and Kathy Ryg, president of Voices for ILLinois Children.
"[We need] to move the runaway issue from where it is to where domestic violence is right now, where it's in the spotLight and it's a huge priority," Clair said. "If an infant it taken from their home, there's an Amber Alert. If a 14-yearold runs away, they're a missing person for 24 hours. There's a disconnect."
Panelists focused on how to use NRS data in poLicymaking, agreeing that funding should be shifted toward preventive measures. Each expressed concern that ILLinois budget cuts wo u Ld slash much-needed youth mental health services, which Ryg said could help avert runaway situations.
"We have to Look at the whole system and make sure that we're not addressing the issue when it's aLready occurred, when it's more expensive," she said.
To Learn more about National Runaway Awareness Month, visit http://www.1800runaway.org.

Subject: Public speaking; Runaways; Social psychology; Researchers

People: Benoit-Bryan, Jennifer

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Researcher unveils 'Runaway Youth Longitudinal Study'

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 5

Pages: 11

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2011

Publication date: Nov 9, 2011

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 906047504

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/researcher-unveils-runaway-youth-longitudinal/docview/906047504/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Nov 9, 2011

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Nation's largest AIDS conference to spotlight Chicago groups

Author: Sosin, Kate

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/nations-largest-aids-conference-spotlight-chicago/docview/904142117/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "We are a reaLLy weLL-organized wheeL here in Chicago," [Cynthia Tucker] said. "We always merge to work in colLaboration and that's different than some other states."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=2&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2011-10-19&amp;atitle=Nation%27s+largest+AIDS+conference+to+spotlight+Chicago+groups&amp;au=Sosin%2C+Kate&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=27&amp;issue=2&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2011-10-19&amp;atitle=Nation%27s+largest+AIDS+conference+to+spotlight+Chicago+groups&amp;au=Sosin%2C+Kate&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Chicago is gearing up to host the country's Largest AIDS conference, bound for the city on Nov. 10. The U. S. Conference on AIDS (USCA) wiLL make its first appearance in the city as it ceLebrates its 15th year running.
"We are reaLLy eager to share with other folks what we are doing," said Cynthia Tucker, chair of the host committee on behalf of AIDS Foundation Chicago (AFC).
Sponsored by the National Minority AIDS Council and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, this year's conference wiLL be themed "Make Change ReaL: Unite. Speak. Act." The theme will focus on men who have sex with men.
Tucker believes the conference is a rare opportunity for Chicago-based service providers to show off their efforts in combating the virus.
The city wiLL get to showcase its Service Providers Council, which convenes LocaL HIV/AIDS organizations. That coalition aLLows LocaL service organizations to better track the spread of the HIV without doubling up services.
"We are a reaLLy weLL-organized wheeL here in Chicago," Tucker said. "We always merge to work in colLaboration and that's different than some other states."
Despite stiff competition for dwindLing funds, Chicago groups have been abLe to support each other through the Council, Tucker said.
The host committee, comprised of 127 local service providers, will be showcasing LocaL organizations in two separate receptions. Center on Halsted wiLL host the first on Nov. 12, whiLe the second wiLL feature both CALOR and Vida/SIDA at the Puerto Rican CuLtural Center later that evening.
The conference itself wiLL be heLd downtown at the Sheraton Chicago HoteL and Towers.
The 3-day event is expected to exceed attendance of past years, Tucker said. The event could draw as many as 4,000 peopLe. It wiLL also bring in an estimated 150 vendors and feature workshops on drug use, domestic violence, transgender health and HIV prevention in communities of color.
Speakers will include CNN anchor Don Lemon, Office of National AIDS Policy Director Jeffrey Crowley, Elton John AIDS Foundation Chairman David Furnish, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Health Dr. Ronald Valdiserri, and Dr. Mary WakefieLd from the HeaLth Resources and Services Administration.
A special memorial wiLL be heLd on Nov. 11 at St. James Temple in North Chicago to commemorate those who have died of AIDS-related ilLnesses and providers who fought against the virus.
Tucker said that Chicago service providers have invited politicians from aLL over the state to the conference in hopes that they will show their support for the fight against AIDS by attending.
A pre-conference institute wiLL be heLd on Nov. 9. That institute is free.
More information on conference can be found at http://www.nmac.org/index/2011usca.

Subject: Conferences; Acquired immune deficiency syndrome--AIDS; Advocacy; Disease prevention

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Tucker, Cynthia

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Nation's largest AIDS conference to spotlight Chicago groups

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 27

Issue: 2

Pages: 16

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2011

Publication date: Oct 19, 2011

Section: AIDS@30

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 904142117

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/nations-largest-aids-conference-spotlight-chicago/docview/904142117/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 19, 2011

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Gay judge heading domestic-violence area

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gay-judge-heading-domestic-violence-area/docview/896477086/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [Sebastian T. Patti] was appointed a circuit judge by the Illinois Supreme Court in 1995 (becoming the first out gay individual to be appointed to this position) and was then elected a circuit judge in November 1996.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=50&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2011-09-21&amp;atitle=Gay+judge+heading+domestic-violence+area&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=50&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2011-09-21&amp;atitle=Gay+judge+heading+domestic-violence+area&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Circuit Court of Cook County Chief Judge Timothy C. Evans recently named openly gay Circuit Judge Sebastian T. Patti, a former supervising judge of the First Municipal District's Housing Section and Appellate Court justice, to succeed Judge Grace G. Dickler as presiding judge of the Domestic Violence Division, according to a press release.
Patti was appointed a circuit judge by the Illinois Supreme Court in 1995 (becoming the first out gay individual to be appointed to this position) and was then elected a circuit judge in November 1996. In 2009, Patti was assigned to the Illinois Appellate Court. He returned to the Circuit Court in January 2011 and was immediately assigned to the Chancery Division.

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Gay judge heading domestic-violence area

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 26

Issue: 50

Pages: 6

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2011

Publication date: Sep 21, 2011

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Sourcetype: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 896477086

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gay-judge-heading-domestic-violence-area/docview/896477086/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Sep 21, 2011

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Shadow of a Gunman

Author: Barnidge, Mary Shen

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/shadow-gunman/docview/896476906/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: The nobody mistaken for somebody is a staple of comedy dating to antiquity, and Sean O'[Casey] prepares us for a cheerful romantic romp featuring reliable stereotypes (fussy landlords, henpecked husbands, bragging cowards) representing the meddlesome fellow tenants who invade our bachelors' quarters to editorialize and emote.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=50&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=26&amp;date=2011-09-21&amp;atitle=Shadow+of+a+Gunman&amp;au=Barnidge%2C+Mary+Shen&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=50&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=26&amp;date=2011-09-21&amp;atitle=Shadow+of+a+Gunman&amp;au=Barnidge%2C+Mary+Shen&amp;id=doi:

Full text: THEATER REVIEW
Shadow of a Gunman
Playwright: Sean O'Casey
At: Seanachai Theatre Company at the Irish-American Heritage Center, 4626 N. Knox Ave.
Phone: 866-811-4111;$24-$28
Runs through: Oct. 23
There is a type of civilian male who yearns for the adulation accorded heroes while keeping wide of the actual experience garnering such rewards. Unsurprisingly, many of these Walter Mittys wind up as writers. Donai Davoren, the Yeats wannabe sharing a squalid room with streetpeddler Seumas Shields, isn't one of these - not in 1920, with Dublin under English occupation following the 1926 Uprising, its streets patrolled by mercenary agents (called the Black and Tans, after their improvised uniforms) exercising all the lawlessness of vigilantes. How Donal's neighbors, flushed with patriotic rhetoric, come to cast him as an undercover rebel assassin remains a mystery, but when the rumors attract the admiration of the pretty girl down the hall, the meek versifier finds it to his advantage to play along.
The nobody mistaken for somebody is a staple of comedy dating to antiquity, and Sean O'Casey prepares us for a cheerful romantic romp featuring reliable stereotypes (fussy landlords, henpecked husbands, bragging cowards) representing the meddlesome fellow tenants who invade our bachelors' quarters to editorialize and emote. Right in mid-yarn, however, the dramatic tone does an abrupt turn, giving way to terror after darkness falls and, with it, the martial-law curfew threatening the citizens with random search-and-seizure operations. When Donai and Seumas discover themselves in accidental possession of dangerous contraband, the solution proves to be fatal to the sole member of Donal's fan club willing to walk as bravely as she talks.
Unlike Irish playwright-successor Martin McDonagh, who juxtaposes humor and horror from the very outset, O'Casey gives us no overt warning of the whiplash awaiting us. Alert playgoers may detect hints in the accounts of events familiar to authences at its premiere in 1923, but lost on nostalgic yankees in 2011 - the latter all too ready to embrace cuddly slum-dwelling eccentrics who just happen to suffer domestic abuse, brutal harassment and untimely deaths.
Director John Mossman refuses to abet such illusion. Oh, his first act is replete with the slamming doors and offstage uproar associated with broadly drawn personalities, but each actor in this Seanachai production has scrutinized O'Casey's text in surgical detail to convey the often-unpleasant complexities behind the initial jollity. Nor do they gloss over the injustice of foreign troops bullying innocents forced to become martyrs. The results leave us shaken and outraged, contemplating the contradictions of civil disorder in a fickle universe.

Subject: Theater

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Mossman, John; O Casey, Sean (1880-1964)

Company / organization: Name: Seanachai Theatre Co; NAICS: 711110

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Shadow of a Gunman

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 26

Issue: 50

Pages: 26

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2011

Publication date: Sep 21, 2011

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Theater Review

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 896476906

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/shadow-gunman/docview/896476906/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Sep 21, 2011

Last updated: 2023-08-28

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Employee claims sexual harassment, unfair termination

Author: Demarest, Erica

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/employee-claims-sexual-harassment-unfair/docview/887726245/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [Elizabeth Cartee] alLeged that when she ended the reLationship, [PhyLLis DeMott] retaliated by changing Cartee's job duties, suspending and eventually firing her. Cartee claimed that DeMott conditioned Cartee's return to work on the submission of private medical records pertaining to her treatment for depression. Cartee said DeMott knew about the treatment because of their reLationship.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=46&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2011-08-24&amp;atitle=Employee+claims+sexual+harassment%2C+unfair+termination&amp;au=Demarest%2C+Erica&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=46&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2011-08-24&amp;atitle=Employee+claims+sexual+harassment%2C+unfair+termination&amp;au=Demarest%2C+Erica&amp;id=doi:

Full text: A former A Safe Place employee has filed a charge of discrimination against the company, aLleging the executive director sexually harassed and unfairly terminated her when the pair's romantic relationship went south.
In a statement filed with the ILlinois Department of Human Rights and the EquaL Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), Elizabeth Cartee - who worked for A Safe Place from February 2008 to December 2010- said she and Executive Director PhyLLis DeMott were invoLved in an intimate reLationship during Cartee's empLoyment.
Cartee alLeged that when she ended the reLationship, DeMott retaliated by changing Cartee's job duties, suspending and eventually firing her. Cartee claimed that DeMott conditioned Cartee's return to work on the submission of private medical records pertaining to her treatment for depression. Cartee said DeMott knew about the treatment because of their reLationship.
"Ms. Cartee was absoluteLy victimized by A Safe Place," Cartee's Lawyer, Betty Tsamis, said. "It's important for an organization and a company to understand that just because the two players are of the same sex that doesn't make it any Less iLLegaL or any Less offensive."
A Safe Place Lawyer Brian Schwartz said Cartee's claims have no merit.
"A Safe Place categoricaLly denies the daims of discrimination made by Ms. Cartee," he said. "In fact, A Safe PLace's deniaL is supported by the Aug. 8, 2011 EEOC dismissal of Ms. Cartee's aLlegations. Ms. Cartee is a disgruntLed former empLoyee who voluntarily abandoned her job without any conduct by A Safe Place that indicated she should do so."
The EEOC ruLed Aug. 8 that it wouLd not investigate Cartee's claim; the commission instead issued a right to sue. Tsamis said she plans to file a Lawsuit seeking damages for Lost income.
"I Lost my apartment," Cartee said. "She took everything from me. She reaLLy did. And whiLe I have to claim some responsibility for it going that way, ifs a classic case of sexual harassment. ... Same-sex harassment is just as bad, and it goes on. PeopLe Look the other way. They think it doesn't merit getting in trouble for, and it was certain Ly as bad as anything I've ever experienced."
A Safe Place provides safe housing and supportive counseLing options to survivors of domestic violence, for free.

Subject: Sexual harassment; Human rights; Terminations; Employees

Business indexing term: Subject: Terminations Employees

People: Tsamis, Betty

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Employee claims sexual harassment, unfair termination

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 26

Issue: 46

Pages: 10

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2011

Publication date: Aug 24, 2011

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 887726245

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/employee-claims-sexual-harassment-unfair/docview/887726245/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Aug 24, 2011

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

'The Faggot Who Could Fly' at Center Aug. 8

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/faggot-who-could-fly-at-center-aug-8/docview/883704258/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: The Faggot Who Could Fly - a "onetranswoman show" featuring KOKL)MO - will take place Monday, Aug. 8, at 7 p.m. at the Hoover-Leppen Theatre at Center on Halsted, 3656 N. Halsted.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=43&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=27&amp;date=2011-08-03&amp;atitle=%27The+Faggot+Who+Could+Fly%27+at+Center+Aug.+8&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=43&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=27&amp;date=2011-08-03&amp;atitle=%27The+Faggot+Who+Could+Fly%27+at+Center+Aug.+8&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: The Faggot Who Could Fly - a "onetranswoman show" featuring KOKL)MO - will take place Monday, Aug. 8, at 7 p.m. at the Hoover-Leppen Theatre at Center on Halsted, 3656 N. Halsted.
KOKUMO, 22, describes herself as a "22-year-old inters ex/trans woman of color" who uses mediums such as poetry, theatre, film and music. The story of the show involves the realization of gender identity in relation to societal oppression and domestic violence.
The show (which also features an excerpt from "No Gender Left Behind," featuring Rebecca King) is free. To RSVP, email tflohr@ centeronhalsted.org or call 773-472-6469, ext. 429.

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: 'The Faggot Who Could Fly' at Center Aug. 8

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 26

Issue: 43

Pages: 27

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2011

Publication date: Aug 3, 2011

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 883704258

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/faggot-who-could-fly-at-center-aug-8/docview/883704258/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Aug 3, 2011

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Latina report shows anti-gay bias, abuse

Author: Sosin, Kate

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/latina-report-shows-anti-gay-bias-abuse/docview/883703848/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "They had a history of violence and the violence is continuing," said Lu Rocha, a member of Amigas Latinas, who presented the study findings July 28. "What was alarming was that the women admitted they were participating in the violent behavior."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=43&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2011-08-03&amp;atitle=Latina+report+shows+anti-gay+bias%2C+abuse&amp;au=Sosin%2C+Kate&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=43&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2011-08-03&amp;atitle=Latina+report+shows+anti-gay+bias%2C+abuse&amp;au=Sosin%2C+Kate&amp;id=doi:

Full text: A new report released by Mujeres Latinos en Acción and Amigas Latinas July 28 shows disturbing rates of discrimination and violence impacting LGBT Latinas.
"Latina Portrait: Latina Queer Women in Chicago" surveyed 305 queer women in Chicago about their experiences ranging from health and well-being to inequity within and beyond the city's LGBT community.
Researchers, who presented their findings in a panel discussion July 28, said some of their conclusions are alarming.
The survey - conducted in 2007, and just coming out now - sheds light on issues facing Chicago Latinas that researchers say are needed to address situations the women face.
The most pressing of those issues, they said, were rates of domestic abuse; depression and anxiety; and a lack of access to culturally sensitive medical care.
"I hope this disrupts the idea that violence only affects poor women," said Dr. Lourdes Torres, a DePaul University professor who co-authored the report with Nicole Perez.
Forty-three percent of respondents reported that they had been physically assaulted by a partner, while 31 percent said a female partner had threatened to kill them.
"They had a history of violence and the violence is continuing," said Lu Rocha, a member of Amigas Latinas, who presented the study findings July 28. "What was alarming was that the women admitted they were participating in the violent behavior."
Forty-five percent of the women surveyed said they had hit or punched a female partner, and 23 percent said they had threatened to kill a partner at some point.
Violence reported came from outside of relationships, too, however.
Many women reported being discriminated against in the mainstream LGBT community because they are Latina. Nearly 69 percent said that racist remarks had been directed at them, while almost 85 percent said they had been in the presence of such remarks.
"We have to understand that violence can be perpetrated through remarks in a number of different ways," said Torres.
Study findings suggest that discrimination contributed to high rates of mental health concerns. Seventy-seven of the respondents reported depression, while 66 reported suffering from anxiety.
The survey also found that many women do not have a primary health care physician, and that if they do, they are not always out as LGBT to their doctors.
Researchers say that more work needs to be done in the community to make sure that doctors are sensitive to LGBT Latinas and transgender people, especially given the high rates of reported domestic abuse going unreported.
Torres believes the study has its shortcomings. Only one of the 305 respondents selfidentified as a transgender, she said. Further, respondents showed higher education rates than have been reported in larger Latino/a communities, making researchers believe that the survey is skewed toward more formallyeducated women.
The study is the fifth in a series by Mujeres Latinas en Acción that focus on Latinas.
The survey, which was drafted as a followup to a 1996 study, was modeled by Dr. Marisa Alicea of DePaul University after a survey done by Affinity Community Services. Torres said that findings from both studies will eventually be compared.
According to Maria Presqueira, CEO of Mujeres Latinas en Acción, this latest study expands significantly on research done in 1996, especially in areas of mental and physical health.
In response to survey findings. Amigas Latinas has revived an old tradition: members have begun hosting platicas, community gatherings in people's homes where queer Latinas can share issues and concerns. The organization hopes to address concerns revealed in the survey and also provide a supportive space where women can share issues and interests.
"I don't want to leave you with the idea that there are not good things happening in our lives, in the lives of queer Latinas," said Torres.

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Bias; Violence; Hispanic people

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Latina report shows anti-gay bias, abuse

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 26

Issue: 43

Pages: 1,10

Number of pages: 2

Publication year: 2011

Publication date: Aug 3, 2011

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgb tq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 883703848

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/latina-report-shows-anti-gay-bias-abuse/docview/883703848/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Aug 3, 2011

Last updated: 2023-08-22

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

'The Faggot Who Could Fly' at Center Aug. 8

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/faggot-who-could-fly-at-center-aug-8/docview/881200998/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: The Faggot Who Could Fly - a "one-transwoman show" featuring KOKUMO - will take place Monday, Aug. 8, at 7 p.m. at the Hoover-Leppen Theatre at Center on Halsted, 3656 N. Halsted.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=42&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=25&amp;date=2011-07-27&amp;atitle=%27The+Faggot+Who+Could+Fly%27+at+Center+Aug.+8&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=42&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=25&amp;date=2011-07-27&amp;atitle=%27The+Faggot+Who+Could+Fly%27+at+Center+Aug.+8&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: The Faggot Who Could Fly - a "one-transwoman show" featuring KOKUMO - will take place Monday, Aug. 8, at 7 p.m. at the Hoover-Leppen Theatre at Center on Halsted, 3656 N. Halsted.
KOKUMO, 22, describes herseLf as a "22-year-oLd intersex/trans woman of color" who uses mediums such as poetry, theatre, film and music. The story of the show invoLves the realization of gender identity in relation to societal oppression and domestic violence.
The show (which also features an excerpt from "No Gender Left Behind," featuring Rebecca King) is free. To RSVP, email tflohr@ centeronhalsted.org or call 773-472-6469, ext. 429.

Subject: Musical performances; Performing artists; Dual career couples

Business indexing term: Subject: Dual career couples

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: 'The Faggot Who Could Fly' at Center Aug. 8

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 26

Issue: 42

Pages: 25

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2011

Publication date: Jul 27, 2011

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 881200998

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/faggot-who-could-fly-at-center-aug-8/docview/881200998/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jul 27, 2011

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Bar foundation awards grants to 23 nonprofits

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bar-foundation-awards-grants-23-nonprofits/docview/879820561/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: - Apna Ghar, $5,000

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=41&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2011-07-20&amp;atitle=Bar+foundation+awards+grants+to+23+nonprofits&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=41&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2011-07-20&amp;atitle=Bar+foundation+awards+grants+to+23+nonprofits&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Headnote LOCAL NEWS
Twenty-three Chicago nonprofit agencies are among 30 Law-reLated nonprofit organizations statewide that received grants from the Illinois Bar Foundation (IBF), the charitable arm of the Illinois State Bar Association. Among the Chicago organizations receiving grants are the following:
Chicago Loop:
- CARPLS Legal Aid, $10,000
-Center for Disability and Elder Law, $7,500
- Chicago Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights, $5,000
- Chicago Legal Advocacy for Incarcerated Mothers, $15,000
- Chicago Volunteer Legal Services, $10,000
- DePaul University College of Law Asylum & Immigration Law Clinic, $7,500
-Domestic Violence Legal Clinic, $15,000
-Equip for Equality, $15,000
-Family Defense Center, $5,000
-Illinois Legal Aid Online, $20,000
- Lawyers Committee for Better Housing, $15,000
- Legal Aid Bureau of Metropolitan Family Services, $11,800
-Life Span, $10,000
- Midwest Center on Law and the Deaf, $3,000
River North:
- Access Living of Metropolitan Chicago, $10,000
-Public Interest Law Initiative, $20,000
River West:
- Cabrini Green Legal Aid, $10,000
LawndaLe:
- Lawndale Christian Legal Center, $10,000
Gold Coast:
- Loyola University Chicago School of Law, $10,000
Uptown:
- Apna Ghar, $5,000
New Eastside:
- Illinois Equal Justice Foundation, $5,000
Wrigleyville:
-Center on Halsted, $7,500
Medical District:
- The Chicago Lighthouse for People Who are Blind or Visually Impaired, $7,500
See http://www.illinoisbarfoundation.org for more on IBF.

Subject: Nonprofit organizations; Grants

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Illinois Bar Foundation; NAICS: 813920

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Bar foundation awards grants to 23 nonprofits

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 26

Issue: 41

Pages: 11

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2011

Publication date: Jul 20, 2011

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 879820561

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bar-foundation-awards-grants-23-nonprofits/docview/879820561/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jul 20, 2011

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Taking it to the streets: Pink Angels

Author: Baim, Tracy

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/taking-streets-pink-angels/docview/878742403/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: One group that caused a particular spark was the Pink Angels Anti-Violence Project. Started in 1991 by Alyn Toler (like Adams, ToIer was a former winner of Gay Chicago Magazine's Mr. Windy City contest), the Pink Angels were modeled on the Guardian Angels, which assisted Tolera group.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=40&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2011-07-13&amp;atitle=Taking+it+to+the+streets%3A+Pink+Angels&amp;au=Baim%2C+Tracy&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=40&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2011-07-13&amp;atitle=Taking+it+to+the+streets%3A+Pink+Angels&amp;au=Baim%2C+Tracy&amp;id=doi:

Full text: The following is from the book Out and Proud in Chicago: An Overview of the City's Gay Community, edited and co-written by Tracy Bairn, published in 2008 by Surrey Books.
Chicago's activist tradition helped build the gay movement in the 1970s and 1980s, including the women's Take Back the Night antiviolence marches. At the end of the 1980s, gays started to march against hate crimes because of an increase in attacks from simple assaults to murders, locally and nationally. Transgender people were especially vulnerable.
Annual anti-violence marches were organized and sponsored by individuals and groups, including Chicago Anti-Bashing Network; It's Time, Illinois (now Illinois Gender Advocates); Horizons Community Services (now Center on Halsted); and many other groups.
Key anti-violence leaders were Paul Adams (who died of AIDS in 2000), Andy Thayer, and Lisa Tonna, who died in 2008 of cancer. The fight against violence had many targets, not just anti-gay attacks, but also domestic violence and police harassment. The rallies would increase in size when highly visible crimes were documented, including the shootings of Ron Cayot, who was shot while leaving a gay bar on Halsted; Adrian "Pebbles" Perez, who was shot in 1999 by intruders who left her friend Buretta Williams dead and Perez severely injured in a South Side apartment; or the killing of Wyoming college student Matthew Shepard.
In the 2000s, the murders continued, including the slaying of Chicagoan Kevin Clewer, a 2004 mystery that remains unsolved, and of young gay and trans youth across the country.
One group that caused a particular spark was the Pink Angels Anti-Violence Project. Started in 1991 by Alyn Toler (like Adams, ToIer was a former winner of Gay Chicago Magazine's Mr. Windy City contest), the Pink Angels were modeled on the Guardian Angels, which assisted Tolera group. While it lasted only a few years (Toler died of AIDS complications), Pink Angels took control of the streets and gave confidence to a generation of activists, training them in self-defense and encouraging them to report hate crimes.

Subject: Activists; Violence; LGBTQ rights movements

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Taking it to the streets: Pink Angels

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 26

Issue: 40

Pages: 11

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2011

Publication date: Jul 13, 2011

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 878742403

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/taking-streets-pink-angels/docview/878742403/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jul 13, 2011

Last updated: 2023-08-21

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

WINDY TIMES CITY 12th Annual THIRTY under 30

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/windy-times-city-12th-annual-thirty-under-30/docview/874929203/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [JUAN CALDERON], 25, was born and raised in Humboldt Park, the center of Chicagoâeuro(TM)sÂ Puerto Rican community. Juanâeuro(TM)s experiences with Chicagoâeuro(TM)s Puerto RicanÂ Cultural Center, which date back to his enrollment in the Centerâeuro(TM)s Consuelo LeeÂ Corretjer Daycare, shaped his views regarding the importance of the communityÂ building, self-determination and LGBTQ health advocacy.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=38&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=50&amp;date=2011-06-22&amp;atitle=WINDY+TIMES+CITY+12th+Annual+THIRTY+under+30&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=38&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=50&amp;date=2011-06-22&amp;atitle=WINDY+TIMES+CITY+12th+Annual+THIRTY+under+30&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: JAMES MASON
27
James, 27, began his work volunteering as a peer advocate for the Broadway youth center. Soon he was offered a position as a young menâeuro(TM)s health specialist providing HIV testing and counseling to underserved youth as well as working as the lead facilitator of a program for young Black MSM called Eban. James has also contributed to other projects, including Fab and Condom Sense; in Condom Sense, he teaches local high school students how to protect themselves from HIV and other STDs.
Did you know? One of James favorite TV shows is Aqua Teen Hunger Force, and he loves fries.
LAUREN PETERS
26
Lauren, 26, has been active in politics since she was in high school. Graduating with a B.A. in political science from Michiganâeuro(TM)s Hope College, Lauren served as the president of the schoolâeuro(TM)s unrecognized Gay-Straight Forum. Lauren became more focused on gaining equality by working to train and elect more LGBT candidates to public office at all levels of government through her work at the Gay & Lesbian Victory Fund, where she served as the political manager. She then decided to focus on the Chicago area where she successfully managed the campaign for newly elected Ald. James Cappleman, the second openly gay alderman in the city. Lauren plans on continuing her work to elect more gay-friendly public officials in Illinois.
Did you know? Almost all of Laurenâeuro(TM)s family lives in southern Illinois.
PHIL REESE
28
Phil, 28, just completed his Master of Library and information Sciences program at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Heâeuro(TM)s now just begun his job as the manager of digital initiatives at the oldest LGBT newspaper in the United States, the Washington Blade, leaving behind his beloved adopted home state of Illinois. Philâeuro(TM)s been an LGBT activist and media figure for more than a decade, beginning during his undergraduate years in Michigan. He is one of the co-founders of the UP Center of Champaign County, the LGBT community center there, and is a founding board member of the Civil Rights Agenda.
Did you know? Phil has been swimming since infancy (no joke) and could spend every day at the beach if he could just find a waterproof laptop.
MATTY ROSADO
24
Matty, 24, is a resilient young transgender woman of color who has survived much discrimination and hardship. Born and raised in Humboldt Park, Mattyâeuro(TM)s service to the LGBTQ community began in the Paseo Boricua, where she did extensive volunteer work and gained a position as a health educator at Vida/SIDA. In 2008 Matty was crowned Queen of the Paseo Boricua Pageant, where she continued to work pro-actively to demand respect for Latina/o trans communities. Matty currently works at the Broadway Youth Center as lead facilitator for both the TWISTA and TYRA programs; serves as a mentor for other LGBTQ youth; designs and implements trans youth programming; and conducts training sessions to increase the cultural competency of trans and gender-related issues among providers.
Did you know? Matty can open beer bottles with her teeth.
REYNA WENCES
19
Reyna, 19, is a queer Chicago youth organizer, pro-immigrant rights activist and undocumented immigrant. Sheâeuro(TM)s a studentÂ atÂ the University of Illinois at Chicago majoring in gender and womenâeuro(TM)s studies and an active member of the Immigrant Youth Justice League (IYJL), a Chicago-based grassroots organization led for and by undocumented youth and with support of allies. She has worked on campaigns to stop the deportation of students and organized civil disobethence to pressure Congress to pass the DREAM Act. At the recent Netroots conference in Minneapolis, Reyna was named one of the recipients of the Freedom from Fear Awards, which honors courageous individuals.
Did you know? Reyna was terrified of aliens until she met Doctor Who.
JANE HERETH
26
Jane, 26, is the coordinator of support services at the Chicago Womenâeuro(TM)s AIDS Project. Prior to working with women living with HIV, Jane worked with the YWCA of Metropolitan Chicagoâeuro(TM)s Sexual Violence Support Services, where she facilitated trainings and supervised volunteers on the Rape Crisis Hotline. Jane volunteers with the Night Ministryâeuro(TM)s youth outreach team, which serves many LGBTQ youth experiencing homelessness. She is also part of the Chicago Prison Industrial Complex Teaching Collective. Jane received a M.S.W. from the Jane Addams College of Social Work at the University of Illinois at Chicago in 2009 and a B.A. in sociology from Grinnell College in 2006.
Did you know? A classically trained violinist, Jane recently picked up the mandolin and dreams of playing in a bluegrass band.
DILLIN DEE
17
Dillin, 17, has been a member of the About Face Youth Theatre Ensemble and the Illinois Safe Schools Alliance for two years. As a member of About Face, he was an understudy in Queertopia, a play that focused on oppression within the LGTBQ community. At the Illinois Safe Schools Allianceâeuro?a non-for-profit focused on creating student leaders, educating people on sexual orientation and gender identity issues and advocating policy change to be more inclusive of the LGBTQ communityâeuro?Dillin has been the fundraising subcommittee chair. He was also chosen to represent the alliance in the 2010 National Gathering of GSA Networks and at the Federal LGBT Youth Summit.
Did you know? Dillin hopes to one day move to Japan, and is hoping to become a veterinarian in the near future.
TEDDY GREENE
29
Teddy, 29, has lived in Chicago for eight years. He is a hairstylist at Salon V, where he works hard to always inspire, create and change. This isnâeuro(TM)t the only way he achieves a piece of mind. Teddy Greene was diagnosed with HIV three and a half years ago. Since then he has involved himself in the HIV/AIDS community by training, running, biking for Test Positive Aware Network and now working with the Team to End AIDS Endurance Program. His passion to do something with the world of disease is shown through his fundraising efforts and attempts to spread awareness.
Did you know? He still sleeps with his childhood teddy bearâeuro?and, no, his name is not Teddy.
EDWIN CORBIN-GUTIERREZ
28
Edwin, 28, is the Anti-Violence Project manager at Center on Halsted. Before joining the Center, Edwin coordinated Strength in Unity, a health advocacy coalition led by The Association of Latino Men for Action (ALMA), and worked as a graduate research assistant in medical anthropology at Northwestern. Edwin was a 2005 Fulbright Fellow in Caracas, Venezuela, received his M.A. in performance studies from Northwestern and his B.A. from Emerson College.
Did you know? Edwin is training for his first triathlon and his second marathon to fight AIDS. People can sponsor him at http://afc.aidschicago.org/netcommunity/eecg or, better yet, join the team.
KOKUMO KINETIC
22
KOKUMO, 22, is an intersex/trans woman of color. KOKUMO uses film, theatre, music and poetry as her chosen mediums. She has a production companyÂ that amalgamates all of the aformentioned into âeurooeblack queer artivism.âeuro? Currently touring her one-transwoman show, The Faggot Who Could Fly, she uses her life of sexual and mental abuse as a catalyst for personal and communal change. The Faggot Who Could Fly is KOKUMOâeuro(TM)s story of realizing her gender identity in relation to domestic violence and societal oppression. The Faggot Who Could Fly is a memoir and a start from this promising artist.
Did you know? KOKUMO is working on creating a television network for gender-spectrum people of color.
JOEY GRANT
27
Joey, 27, is a Chicago native and the founder of Mint Male Magazine andÂ MintMale.com. Mintâeuro(TM)s purpose was to highlight the passionate and professional men in the gay community. After two years Mint is evolving intoÂ a multimedia site that will feature queer artists, videos, original web programming and a daily blog for Mint Male fans. Joey has coordinated dozens of events for several charities, such as GetEQUAL, HRC, Howard Brown and Toys for Tots. In addition Joey has worked on events featuring the arts, live theatre and fashionâeuro?all while holding down a full-time job as a hairstylist in Lake View at Lâeuro(TM)etoile Salon.
Did you know? Joey was on the Bozo show and made it to the grand prize game.
LINDSEY DIETZLER
28
Dietzler, 28, is a queer/trans activist and co-founder of Video Action League, which aims to transform, inspire and educate through the use of new media. His organizing began with local punk rock shows and evolved into acts of civil disobethence, flash mobs, rallies and conferences. Dietzler is a graduate of Columbia College Chicago, receiving his B.A. in cultural studies and minor in women and gender studies. Since then, he has worked with Equality Across America, GetEQUAL, Join the Impact Chicago, LGBT Change, The Civil Rights Agenda and The Yes Men in addition to the Video Action League.
Did you know? Dietzler is an avid cyclist and his bicycle is named Harvey Milk.
SUKARI STONE
15
Sukari, 15, a lifelong Hyde Parker, just completed her freshman year with honors at Whitney M. Young High School. In February 2010 she joined the About Face Youth Theater (AFYT), a fabulous LGBTQA activist theatre group, and discovered her passion for the LGBTQA cause. Shortly after joining About Face, Sukari became a fierce advocate with the Illinois Safe School Alliance, an organization promoting safety and support for LGBTQ youth throughout Illinois. While working with the alliance, she has helped organize and facilitate several youth events, including summits and celebrations. This past year, she was one of the two student representatives on Gov. Pat Quinnâeuro(TM)s statewide Prevent School Violence Task Force. Sukari plans to continue to advocate for queer rights and equality outside and within the LGBT community.
Did you know? Sukariâeuro(TM)s favorite foods are grapefruit and potatoesâeuro?although not necessarily together.
NATHAN POLUM
26
Nathan, 26, graduated from the Chicago-Kent College of Law in 2009 and has since been working as an attorney at the Deratany Firm. Nathan has worked on numerous cases of significant importance to the LGBT community, including the case of a New York mother and her gay son, Michael, who received death threats from his classmates. Since starting work at the Deratany Firm, Nathan has represented numerous clients who have been harassed and discriminated against because of their sexuality and HIV status. Nathan is also a member of the Lesbian and Gay Bar Association of Chicago.
Did you know? Nathan enjoys spending time with his cocker spaniel, Stella.
MAX BEVER
25
Max, 25, is the director of community outreach for openly gay Ald. Tom Tunney in Lakeview. As a representative for the Boystown neighborhood, he facilitates several events and projects for the Chicago LGBT community, including the annual Pride Parade, Market Days and the upcoming outdoor Halsted walking museum the Legacy Walk. A former press aide and LGBT liaison for the governorâeuro(TM)s office, Max is also a member of Loyola University Chicagoâeuro(TM)s LGBT Alumni Board and, while at school, helped to establish the annual Hate Crime Awareness Week.
Did you know? Max is involved in local theatre both as a published playwright and as a member of the gay-themed theatre company MidTangent Productions.
SIMON CHAVEZ
22
Simon, 22, started volunteering at the age of 17 as the benefit coordinator with Western Service Workers Association in California. HeÂ eventually came back to his hometownÂ of Chicago, whereÂ heÂ began to volunteer with the Center On Halsted. He started to volunteer with criminal court advocacy in Cook County, worked at Childrenâeuro(TM)s Memorial Hospital as a patient advocate and became a part of The American Foundation For Suicide Prevention andÂ The Trevor Project, among other organizations. Simon is a crisis counselor on Center on Halstedâeuro(TM)s Anti-Violence Project Hotline, and leads the volunteer committee to prevent bullying and violence in schools. A pre-med student, Simon hopes to bring his passion for crisis intervention and violence prevention to emergency medicine.
Did you know? Simon rescued a retired racing greyhound named Noodles.
KEITH ECKER
29
Keith, 29, was born in the suburbs of Dallas. After receiving his bachelors from the University of Missouriâeuro(TM)s School of Journalism, he landed in Chicago in 2004, becoming an editor at a national legal magazineâeuro?but he eventually made the transition into comedy. He studied at the Second City, iO, the Annoyance Theatre and Chicago Dramatist, and has performed stand-up, sketch and improv comedy throughout Chicago. In 2009, he established Essay Fiesta, a monthly charitable reading series that features first-person, non-fiction narratives. The show has raised more than $3,200 for Howard Brown Health Center and 826CHI. He is also a theater critic, a freelance writer and a founding member of the Chicago Story Collective, a theatrical group of essayists.
Did you know? Keith keeps a ventriloquist dummy in his hall closet. Itâeuro(TM)s between a crocodile-shaped humidifier and a tackle box full of paintbrushes.
AAY PRESTON-MYINT
30
Aay, 30, has worked to promote independent arts and culture in Chicago since moving to the city in 2003. He has been a curator and organizer for several artists collectives across the city, including Bridgeportâeuro(TM)s Texas Ballroom, Rogers Parkâeuro(TM)s Mess Hall and No Coast in Pilsen. Most notably, he has been an organizer, DJ and designer for Chances Dancesâeuro?a queer dance party; safe space for gender expression; and platform for local activism, education and performanceâeuro?since its founding in 2005. Aay is also an artist in his own right, and has exhibited extensively in Chicago as well as in San Francisco, Minneapolis and New York. A recent graduate of the Master of Fine Arts program at the University of Illinois, Aayâeuro(TM)s thesis work involving queer utopias and critical thought earned him the prestigious Joan Mitchell Foundation Grant in May 2011.
Did you know? Aay will eat almost anything once, makes the meanest key lime pie from scratch and hates amusement-park rides.
JONATHAN MITCHELL
27
Jonathan, 27, acts as a prevention specialist at Test Positive Aware Network, where he conducts HIV testing and counseling. He also facilitates a monthly group of more than 20 African-American MSM (men who have sex with men). Jonathan also sponsors SMART SEX prevention parties as well: He finds willing community members, hosts a BBQ at their residence and then facilitates an âeurooeHIV/AIDS 101âeuro? course. Jonathan is an aspiring blogger and YouTuber, and is planning on going back to school for photography and art direction in the near future.
Did you know? Jonathan has an obsession with plaid/flannel shirtsâeuro?he has more than 40 of them.
SAMUEL HOEHNLE
29
Sam, 29, is an eastern Iowa native. He went to Coe College and graduated in May 2005 with a B.A. in political science and a minor in theatre. In 2006 he moved to Chicago to work with AmeriCorps. In the first year he worked with City Year Chicago, helping tutor youth and helping run an afterschool program. In Samâeuro(TM)s second AmeriCorps year, he worked with the National AIDS Foundation AmeriCorps program and was placed at the Center on Halsted to work in the drop-in space. After AmeriCorps, Sam went to work for Howard Brown Health Center in the outreach department; he now goes to various venues around Chicago and suburban Cook County to offer HIV/STI testing and referrals. He plans to attend graduate school for public health.
Did you know? Sam placed third in a sweet corn-husking competition and vows to return to earn the gift certificate that was so wrongfully taken from him by a Wisconsinite.
ALEXANDER SEWELL
23
A native of Chicago, Alexander, 23, is a political science major at Roosevelt University, where he once held the position of SGA president. Alexander is previous member of the Chicago Black Gay Menâeuro(TM)s Caucus, an HIV/AIDS advocacy group closely partnered with the CDPH. In addition, he has volunteered with several political campaigns, supporting Democratic candidates who share his progressive values. Alexander has been involved in voter registration campaigns and advocacy for civil-union legislation in Illinois with the Civil Rights Agenda. Alexander is a 2011 New Leaders Council Fellow; the New Leaders Council aims to train and support the next generation of progressive political entrepreneurs.
Did you know? Alexander's middle name is Casanova.
STEPHEN LEONARD
26
Stephen, 26, moved to Chicago from Metro Detroit in 2006. He has since grown into an independent singer/songwriter, hockey player and community advocate.Â He released his debut album, With a Pen, in support of Join the Impact Chicago in 2010 and has also produced and hosted an array of events and fund aisers, including the Maryâeuro(TM)s Spotlight Variety Showcase; the Love and Let Bea Arthur Bar Crawl; and a year-long, weekly acoustic concert series for LGBTQ and supporting acts at the Wild Pug. When off the stage, Leonard is on the ice with the Chicago Gay Hockey Association. His most memorable experience to date is being involved with organizing the Blackhawks and Stanley Cupâeuro(TM)s participation in the 2010 Pride Parade.
Did you know? Stephen has performed (music) at Steamworks. Also, he will have a song included in the upcoming movie Eating Out: Drama Camp, set to premiere on Logo in July.
ANDREW RIPLINGER
25
Andrew, 25, is a founding board member and the current executive director of Rafiki Collaborative, a Chicago-based non-profit organization that works to build the capacity of organizations and institutions that promote the health and well-being of communities in Kenya. He is also the international program coordinator for the Adolescent Community Health Research Group at DePaul University. Andrew also sits on the Jr. Board of Directors at the AIDS Foundation of Chicago (AFC), co-chairing its policy and education working group, and is currently training for his third Chicago marathon with AFCâeuro(TM)s Team to End AIDS. Andrew is currently finishing his masterâeuro(TM)s degree at DePaul in international studies, with a special focus on climate change policy, international development and sustainability.
Did you know? Andrew got malaria on his first trip to Kenya in December 2007âeuro?but donâeuro(TM)t worry, heâeuro(TM)s okay!
ARLINE WELTY
29
Arline, 29, co-founded Chicago Books to Women in Prison 10 years ago while thinking about race and politics at the University of Chicago. Today, the bookish queers and prison abolitionists of Books to Women in Prison have sent more than 100,000 paperback books through bars. Arline enjoys literary criticism, Bitch magazine and presidential biographies. She is the communications manager at PortionPac, a local manufacturer of sustainable cleaning concentrates.
Did you know? When sheâeuro(TM)s not reading and writing, Arline is totally monogamous with her Wustof Grand Prix chefâeuro(TM)s knife.
VIRGIL ROBERSON
28
Virgil, 28, is a Columbus, Ohio native who is the program outreach coordinator for âeurooeOur Voice Advocating Healthâeuro? (OVAH!), a collaboration between Test Positive Aware Network and Center on Halsted. He has proudly contributed to the world of non-profit since the age of 15, and some of the organizations he has worked with include Church of Open Door, South Side Help Center, Taskforce Prevention and Community, Chicago Black Gay Menâeuro(TM)s Caucus and New York Cityâeuro(TM)s Gay Menâeuro(TM)s Health Crisis. In his spare time, Virgil walks the runway within the ball scene for the âeuro?House of Infinitiâeuro? as âeurooeJaylin (Tallboy) Infiniti.âeuro? He also provides condoms as well as STD and HIV literature in his outreach efforts to bars and barber shops on Chicagoâeuro(TM)s South Side.
Did you know? Virgil is the proud gay mother of seven gay children whom he loves dearly.
LULU MARTINEZ
21
Lulu, 21, is a student at Harold Washington College and is double-majoring in education and Latin American and Latino studies. Lulu is a queer undocumented youth and organizer with the Immigrant Youth Justice League (IYJL). Born in Tlalnepantla, Mexico, Lulu moved to the United States with her family at the age of 3. Before her involvement in the immigrant-rights movement, Lulu focused her time on animal rights and art. She is currently working to combine her passion in the arts and politics.
Did you know? Lulu plans on painting a mural in her bedroom this summer. She is also thinking of moving to Georgia to continue the fight for undocumented youthsâeuro(TM) right to access post-secondary education.
Did you know? Nathan enjoys spending time with his cocker spaniel, Stella.
ADAM SORKIN
As president of the LGBT student organization at Harvard Law School, Adam, 29, helped organize a national conference on âeurooeDonâeuro(TM)t Ask, Donâeuro(TM)t Tell,âeuro? as well as the firstÂ Democratic primary debate for Massachusetts governor that focused on LGBT issues. HeÂ led a protest against military recruiters on Harvardâeuro(TM)s campus that was covered in the national press, andÂ his research wasÂ used in the third edition of the textbook Sexual Orientation and the Law.Â Â As an attorney atÂ Schiff Hardin LLP, Adam served on the law firmâeuro(TM)s LGBT Diversity Committee;Â created the firmâeuro(TM)s first LGBT-specific recruitment materials; and persuaded the firm to recruit at an annualÂ LGBT job fair and support LGBT non-profits.Â Adam currently serves as vice president of the Lesbian and Gay Bar Association of Chicago..
Did you know? Spring, summer and fall, AdamÂ commutes by bike from his home in AndersonvilleÂ to his office in the Loop.
MEESHA LOVE
22
Meesha, 22, is a native of Chicago, Illinois raised on the South Side of Chicago. Meesha first begin her work with UCANâeuro(TM)s LGBTQ Host Home Program as a founding member of the Advisory Council consisting of youth and adults with an idea to better their community. The LGBTQ Host Home Program at UCAN partners with host volunteers who open their homes to LGBTQ young adults who experience unstable housing (homelessness). Meesha has also represented the Host Home Program at the national level in Washington, D.C., working to create a workplan for a national advisory council of LGBT leaders who meet annually to address LGBT youth homelessness.
Did you know? Meesha works at a nursing home near downtown as an activity assistant for senior citizens, where she enjoys spending time and making them laugh.
WILL LOPEZ
25
Will, 25, is originally from Florida. He recently graduated cum laude from Chicago-Kent College of Law and will be starting as an associate at Hinshaw & Culbertson LLP this fall. While in law school, Will was president of the schoolâeuro(TM)s LGBT law-student organization, the Chicago-Kent Lambdas. As president, Will organized the Chicago-Kent Lambdas LGBT Civil Rights Conference, which brought together more than 200 politicians, lawyers, professors, students and activists from around the Midwest to learn about topics such as Illinois civil unions, transgender rights and âeurooeDonâeuro(TM)t Ask, Donâeuro(TM)t Tell.âeuro? Will is also on the board of the Lesbian & Gay Bar Association of Chicago and has recently published a law review article on same-sex marital parentage.
Did you know? Will has two dogs, Mr. Darcy and Bennet, which are named after characters in Jane Austenâeuro(TM)s Pride & Prejudice.
PETE SUBKOVIAK
29
Pete, 29, is a policy coordinator at the AIDS Foundation of Chicago (AFC), where he works on several legislative and advocacy healthcare-access initiatives. He plans the annual Illinois HIV/AIDS Lobby Days, coordinates the Illinois Alliance for Sound AIDS Policy (IL ASAP) and the Midwest AIDS Policy Alliance (MAPA) as well as AFCâeuro(TM)s online advocacy efforts. He also works on expanding health care access and employment opportunities for the transgender community. His opinion editorials have been featured on the Huffington Post, Savage Love Blog, Bilerco Project, and several other online and print media. Pete sits on Congressman Mike Quigleyâeuro(TM)s Health Care and LGBT Advisory Boards and is part of the leadership of the Citywide LGBT Coalition.
Did you know? A true Wisconsinite, Pete is a cheese-curd connoisseur.
ANTHONY GALLOWAY
29
Anthony, 29, is an independent public health consultant that specializes in HIV prevention and sexual reproductive health. He has worked with community-based organizations across the country in implementing CDC evidence-based community-level interventions in addition as serving in leadership roles on Pride committees. Currently, Anthony holds posts on the Chicago Black Gay Menâeuro(TM)s Caucus, and the city and state HIV-prevention planning groups. Just recently he joined the Rocks Coordinating Committee to assist with the coordination of the Montrose Rocks Pride event. Anthony also is the chief creative officer for Art & Soul, a collective performance act for the LGBT community hosted at Circuit Nightclub. In 2004, Anthony was the recipient of the Creating Change award from the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force.
Did you know? Anthony enjoys attending and judging drag pageants.
JUAN CALDERON
25
Juan, 25, was born and raised in Humboldt Park, the center of Chicagoâeuro(TM)sÂ Puerto Rican community. Juanâeuro(TM)s experiences with Chicagoâeuro(TM)s Puerto RicanÂ Cultural Center, which date back to his enrollment in the Centerâeuro(TM)s Consuelo LeeÂ Corretjer Daycare, shaped his views regarding the importance of the communityÂ building, self-determination and LGBTQ health advocacy. As the youngest director of the project Vida/SIDA, Juean oversees the daily operation of many ofâeuro?Chicagoâeuro(TM)s Latino prevention interventions, advocacy and LGBTQâeuro?services in Chicagoâeuro(TM)s Near Northwest Side. Three years ago, he initiatedâeuro?a pageant to address homophobia and transphobia in the community and to createâeuro?LGBTQ community ambassadors; now an annual event, this marks one of Calderonâeuro(TM)sâeuro?greatest successes.
Did you know? Juan likes listening to musicians such as Shakira, Pussycat Dolls and Ruben Blades, and enjoys TV shows such as RuPaulâeuro(TM)s Drag Race and Family Guy.
JAMES HENDERSON
29
James, 29, was working in the nonprofit world before moving to Chicago more than six years ago. As the training manager at Chicago House and Social Service Agency for the last four years, James has worked on every aspect of building and implementing its social enterprise, Sweet Miss Givingâeuro(TM)s Bakery. He spends countless hours training and supervising classes of interns who are looking for an opportunity to get back into the workforce.
Did you know? When James is not at Chicago House or Sweet Miss Givingâeuro(TM)s, you can find him at the gym or preparing meals at home to dull the temptation to eat all the decadent sweets at the bakery. James also loves spending time with his beloved dog.

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: WINDY TIMES CITY 12th Annual THIRTY under 30

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 26

Issue: 38

Pages: 50-55

Number of pages: 6

Publication year: 2011

Publication date: Jun 22, 2011

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 874929203

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/windy-times-city-12th-annual-thirty-under-30/docview/874929203/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jun 22, 2011

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Mark Ishaug pushes AIDS agenda in Chicago and far beyond

Author: Toce, Sarah

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mark-ishaug-pushes-aids-agenda-chicago-far-beyond/docview/874057233/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Iâeuro(TM)m always looking for the intersection. Iâeuro(TM)m doing a big project with the National Network to End Domestic Violence, helping build curricula for DV providers and AIDS providers. Thatâeuro(TM)s the kind of stuff that really energizes me: looking at where we can intersect our worlds. Because people with AIDS donâeuro(TM)t live in a silo, theyâeuro(TM)re not just people with AIDSâeuro?theyâeuro(TM)re people with everything else.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=37&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=18&amp;date=2011-06-15&amp;atitle=Mark+Ishaug+pushes+AIDS+agenda+in+Chicago+and+far+beyond&amp;au=Toce%2C+Sarah&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=37&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=18&amp;date=2011-06-15&amp;atitle=Mark+Ishaug+pushes+AIDS+agenda+in+Chicago+and+far+beyond&amp;au=Toce%2C+Sarah&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Humanitarian Mark Ishaug has been working zealously for social justice surrounding the often-taboo subjects of hunger, homelessness, healthcare, HIV/AIDS and civil rights for more than 30 years. His work in developing the program CARE International-Mozambique in 1990 landed him on the global map, funneling into the underserved population. Later, he would join AIDS Foundation of Chicago (AFC) and ACT UP.
Today, Ishaug serves as the CEO of AIDS United (a merger between the National AIDS Fund and AIDS Action) in Washington, D.C. In addition, Illinois Gov. Pat Quinn appointed the passionate pioneer to be one of the 22 statewide leaders on the new Commission to End Hunger.
Windy City Times: Your work in Africa led you in 1990 to develop CARE InternationalMozambique. How did that career opportunity transpire?
Mark Ishaug: I was actually in grad school at Northwestern University, working on a Ph.D. (which I did not get, I got a masterâeuro(TM)s degree), but I was working. While attending Northwestern, I got a MacArthur Foundation scholarship that took me to Mozambique. And while I was doing research there at the university, I ended up getting, maybe, a six- or eight-month gig with CARE International Mozambique, working in its emergency-relief program. It was really an amazing experience.
WCT: Can you tell us a few things about how you were personally affected by your work in Africa?
MI: My first trip to Africa was in 1983, so almost 30 years ago, and I actually âeuro* Iâeuro(TM)ve known about HIV and AIDS for 30 years, since the first case was reported in 1981. When I went to Africa for the first time, I remember thinking that with how itâeuro(TM)s transmitted and, you know âeuro* it was possibly going to be a hot spot in the world. I actually remember coming back, really, really sick, in 1983, and one of my friends who was with me, her folks were doctors, and they were actually talking about the potential of HIV in Africa back then.
And then I went to Zimbabwe in 1987, and it was really an interesting time in 1987 in Zimbabwe, because there was basically, like, official denial in Zimbabwe and Mozambique that HIV and AIDS was a problem at all. I remember reading articles in the paper and talking to people from Zimbabwe, that said, âeurooeOh, no, this is a Europeanâeuro?this is an American problem, thereâeuro(TM)s never going to be HIV in Africa. This doesnâeuro(TM)t affect âeuro* this wonâeuro(TM)t affect Africans, it will only affect white people.âeuro? I remember being so frustrated because of course knowing by then many people, Black and white, from all over the world, who had become infected with âeuro* and were living with or had died of HIV and AIDS, it was so frustrating to me, back then, 25 years ago, to just âeuro* to watch the complete and utter denial of a disease that has now devastated the continent.
WCT: You joined AIDS Foundation of Chicago (AFC) in 1991 as a policy analyst and worked as policy director. At that time, how was the city of Chicago directly affected by HIV and AIDS?
MI: Oh, horrifically. I was working during grad school [as a waiter at Ann Sather restaurant owned by Tom Tunney, who is now an alderman] in Chicago, so from 1988 to 1991, I remember working there and just meeting hundreds of people that were affected by HIV and AIDS. And we saw in the mid- to-late âeuro(TM)80s just how Chicago was being ravaged by this epidemic. Organizations like Chicago House and Test Positive Aware Network and Howard Brown and the AIDS Foundation, in the mid- to-late âeuro(TM)80s, were trying to do so much for the hundreds, if not thousands, of people that were dying, when there was so little to offer them. I know it sounds like a cli-chÃ©, but when I started doing this work, we were really helping people die with dignity. There was one drug, maybe two, and they were somewhat life-extending, but they were not life-saving in any way. So it was a very âeuro* it was a very dark and depressing time.
On the other hand, it was also a time of great hope and great inspiration because individuals were rallying to save their own lives and to save their friends and their brothers and their sisters and their loved ones. And ACT UP was an unbelievable force for change, and what the folks at ACT UP/Chicago did to raise awareness, to demand government support, to push the private sector, to raise media awareness, to get the American Medical Association (AMA) to change its policies âeuro* just so much exciting stuff that really did change the course of the epidemic.
So that time, 20 years ago, was full of contradictions. Because it was about death and dying, but it was about life and great hope. It was âeuro* âeurooeThe sky is falling, but everythingâeuro(TM)s going to be great.âeuro? It was a difficult time.
I also started at the AIDS Foundation right after the Ryan White Care Act was passed and one of the first things I did, new on the job (I had only been there a week or two), was lobby for the first Ryan White Care Act appropriation in Washington, D.C. So it was a very, very exciting time, in the spring of 1991, to be on the Hill, fighting for what would be that hundreds of millions of dollars for emergency AIDS relief in places like Chicago, San Francisco, Boston, New York, and L.A. And we were successful, our first year out. We went from no appropriations to hundreds of millions of dollars. Desperately needed and not enough. âeuro* So thatâeuro(TM)s how I started my career in HIV, 20 years ago.
And so ironically or coincidentally now, Iâeuro(TM)m in D.C., most of the time, fighting for healthcare reform; and fighting for Ryan White appropriations; and figuring out new and smarter and more efficient ways that we can care for people and to prevent new infections.
WCT: Thatâeuro(TM)s an amazing body of work in 20 years. Do you think that because Ryan White was a straight little boy, that maybe Congress was more willing to listen, instead of it being a gay person that they were speaking to? Do you think there was some discrimination or compassion because he wasnâeuro(TM)t gay?
MI: Well, I mean, Jeanne White and Ryan White really changed the course of this epidemic. He was the inspiration for millions of people. I mean, obviously the inspiration for key individuals like Elton John and others. Elton John will even say that he wasnâeuro(TM)t involved in this work until he met Ryan White, and Ryan White changed his outlook on life, and so Ryan and Jeanne have just been an inspiration to millions. And we literally wouldnâeuro(TM)t âeuro* itâeuro(TM)s possible that we wouldnâeuro(TM)t have the [Ryan White] Care Act today, and the billions of dollars that we have for treatment and drugs, if it werenâeuro(TM)t for his inspirational life.
It was really easy thenâeuro?and itâeuro(TM)s still easy now, in some waysâeuro?for people to compartmentalize their compassion and/or their fears. HIV was, and in many ways still is, in many parts of the world and in the United States, a stigmatized disease. So clearly, Ryan White, a boy who was infected through a drug transfusion, as opposed to unsafe sex, unclean needles, or prostitution, or any of the stigmatizing quote-unquote behaviors associated with HIV, drug use, et cetera âeuro* yeah. We were lucky that Ryan Whiteâeuro(TM)s story and his sheer force of personality inspired so many people. Itâeuro(TM)s âeuro* it was just the reality of the times. It says a lot both about the discrimination that so existed in this country 20-plus years ago. It also showed the enormous heart and compassion that people can have for people that are sick and dying. Itâeuro(TM)s truly a double-edged sword.
WCT: Are there any distinct incidences that stand out to you in the past 20 years, that you look back upon and say, âeurooeOkay, I was involved in this series of events and it definitely made an important imprintâeuro? in regards to fighting the epidemic?
MI: A couple of things. You know, clearly on the care and treatment side. You know, this [interview] is not just about me, this is about the AIDS Foundation and the sector, but I think our mobilization around the Ryan White Care Act and our fierce and effective lobbying for the Ryan White Care Act is just a âeuro* itâeuro(TM)s a huge success. I think that the advocacy to get the drug companies to invest in better treatments, to discover better treatments, to make those accessible âeuro* I mean, just a generalized advocacy, I think, of the AIDS movement really has inspired many others, and womenâeuro(TM)s groups, and those suffering from other life-threatening or chronic diseases. So I do think that our voices and organizing of people living with HIV has really changed the landscape in America. So that is, of course, one of my proudest accomplishments.
I think our work around needle exchange and making access to clean needles available in Illinois and many other places is a huge contribution to the fight against AIDS, and a very tough battle that we waged in Illinois for years, almost a decade. You know, when the science was incontrovertible, we still couldnâeuro(TM)t get lawmakers to agree to support something that in fact would save lives and save money and not increase drug use, because of fear, because of stigma, because of âeuro* people were either putting their heads in the sand and not dealing with the fact that clean needles save lives, but just focusing on the stigmatizing behavior of drug use. But that, I think, was a major accomplishment in really turning the tide.
Also, the work of many of my colleagues in Chicago around prenatal transmission, prevention (people like Anne Statton from PACPI and Mardge Cohen and many others) has been one area of advancement in treatment and prevention, where weâeuro(TM)re basically eliminating mother-tochild transmission in America and really have the potential to do it across the world.
And of course being at the advent of just these amazing antiretrovirals and other therapiesâeuro? again, which I had nothing to do withâeuro?but I am just so ecstatic that we have such amazing therapies that are reducing viral load, making the virus almost undetectable.
The other thing that Iâeuro(TM)m really excited about âeuro* again, I played a small role in thisâeuro?itâeuro(TM)s been mostly Jim Pickett at the AIDS Foundation and othersâeuro?but I have played a role in microbicide advocacy, including rectal microbicide advocacy, for many years now. Not as a leader, but as a supporter of Jim Pickett and others that are doing this work. But I think weâeuro(TM)ve really âeuro* weâeuro(TM)re moving the needle on prevention technologies. Itâeuro(TM)s not just the condom; itâeuro(TM)s also the microbicide and itâeuro(TM)s the rectal microbicide, and so on.
For me, the bottom line is that because weâeuro(TM)ve had such success over the last 20 years and there are so many potential successes on the horizon, especially in HIV prevention and the use of biomedical interventions for prevention, that I just have such great hope that we really are going to end this epidemic in America in my lifetime. And thatâeuro(TM)s what keeps me going. Thatâeuro(TM)s what energizes me and thatâeuro(TM)s what gets me out of bed every morning to do this work.
WCT: You are quick to recognize all of your colleagues in this effort to eradicate HIV/ AIDS. Do you feel that support throughout the community as a whole?
MI: It really is about the collective. I mean, what inspires me about doing this work is that I feel like I have thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of colleagues. I might only work with 30 at AIDS United directly, or work with 70 at AIDS Foundation, but I think about the thousands of people that I get to work with every day, through all these different organizations, not just HIV but sort of broader healthcare and advocacy groups.
I think the future to ending this epidemic are all of us who are doing this sort of AIDS-focused work to do it through a much broader coalition, connecting with the domestic violence groups in a much deeper way because of the intersection of HIV and domestic violence, and working closely with all the other disease-specific entities. Folks looking at diabetes, and folks working to fight cancer, and folks working to fight heart disease âeuro* everything that affects our clients today we didnâeuro(TM)t even think about 20 years ago. We were so busy fighting AIDS [back then] and now weâeuro(TM)re helping people live with HIV and a whole host of other chronic medical conditions. So I just think itâeuro(TM)s âeuro* itâeuro(TM)s a really exciting time, and if we could all collectively focus our energy on making sure that healthcare reform is implemented in 2014, and if we all work together on the National HIV/ AIDS Strategy, I really do believe âeuro* again, itâeuro(TM)s clichÃ©: we sent a man to the moon, thereâeuro(TM)s no way we cannot end this epidemic.
WCT: There are an estimated 600,000 people living with HIV that are not receiving the life-saving access to care they need. And Iâeuro(TM)m wondering if youâeuro(TM)re also drawing this correlation that a lot of us seem to be: that now that we have all of these drugs, people are a little bit more lax about prevention, possibly because they have these new life-saving drugs that can be used following diagnosis?
MI: Well, I think the rise in âeuro* or at least the leveling of âeuro* new infections in this country between 50,000-60,000 per year âeuro* the reasons are complicated. Yes, I think there is some, what is called âeurooebehavioral disinhibition,âeuro? because people donâeuro(TM)t see their friends, especially their young friends, becoming emaciated and dying, and so thereâeuro(TM)s less fear, in part because the drugs are so successful and people can be living on medications for what appears to be a long, long, long time.
But I think itâeuro(TM)s deeper than that. I think stigma is driving the epidemic for sure, homophobia is driving the epidemic, violence âeuro* violence against men and violence against women is driving the epidemic. And lack of access to care. People are much less likely to become infected or to transmit HIV if they have quality healthcare. But in many places in this country, itâeuro(TM)s really hard to get an HIV doctor. Not just in the South and in the rural areas, but in many urban areas as well. âeuro* [We] know from our own experience in Chicago and throughout the country that even if there are AIDS docs, thereâeuro(TM)s not often access to these clinics and to these programs for people who need them most. There could be cultural competency issues, there could be issues of hours that theyâeuro(TM)re open, when people canâeuro(TM)t get there, thereâeuro(TM)s issues related to child care. Thereâeuro(TM)s a whole host of issues, both internal to people living with HIV, and external to them, like the systems of care that donâeuro(TM)t welcome them. I think all of these factors are contributing to the 50-60,000 new infections we have in this country every year.
If only there was a simple explanation for why there are 50,000 new infections âeuro* but I think you have to look at all of these reasons together to see what contributes to it. There are just not enough resources, and especially not enough resources in primary HIV prevention, targeted to the communities and individuals who need this the most. We had eight years of a [George W.] Bush administration where the [U.S. Centers for Disease Control] couldnâeuro(TM)t even talk about âeuro* gay men âeuro*
WCT: Condoms.
MI: âeuro* and condoms. So you have a website that doesnâeuro(TM)t talk about condoms, or you have researchers that canâeuro(TM)t put in proposals targeting men who have sex with men, because âeuro* it wonâeuro(TM)t make it past review. We had almost a decade with a deeply chilling effect on how we talk about HIV and how we reach those most at risk.
WCT: How do you feel that President Obama and his administration are doing in fighting this epidemic?
MI: Well, overall, I am delighted. We have a National HIV/AIDS Strategyâeuro?which we never had before, for 30 yearsâeuro?and the Obama administration released its National HIV/AIDS Strategy with very specific goals and objectives for the next five years. And most importantly, we have a president that fought for and won access to healthcare through the Affordable Care Act. And this healthcare reform is the game-changer for people with AIDS. Our folks who have heretofore been denied care, because they donâeuro(TM)t qualify for Medicaid-like programs, in 2014 will have access to Medicaid, and will have access to a source of financial support to pay for their primary care and for their drugs.
So, yeah, there are things that the administration probably could be doing better, we all could be doing better, but I think when you look at the investment in Ryan White, the lifting of the ban for federal funding on syringe exchange, the National HIV/AIDS Strategy and the Affordable Healthcare Act âeuro* this is it. Itâeuro(TM)s not perfect, but it is key âeuro* all of these things combined are key to ending the epidemic. No president in the 30-year American history âeuro* has done all of this in two years.
WCT: I read a story recently from AIDS Connect that you wrote about a woman who stuck up her middle finger at you and said, âeurooeI hope you die.âeuro?
MI: Mmhmm, yeah.
WCT: And this happened roughly 20 years after another person did the exact same thing to you, at a healthcare rally. How do you gracefully move past that? Your response was great. Your response was, âeurooeWell, Iâeuro(TM)m going to die eventually, but not anytime soon, I hope.âeuro? That reaction was much more dignified than her attack on you.
MI: Yeah, well, that was a really âeuro* it was an amazing moment for me. I was at a healthcare reform rally, and I was wearing my T-shirt that said, âeurooeHealthcare is a right.âeuro? I was really inspired, on this really beautiful summer day, thinking that people would come and join us. And while we had a nice crowd and some press, the woman walking over to me really was a wake-up call. I didnâeuro(TM)t know it then, but those folks were the beginning of the Tea Party movementâeuro?the very folks that are trying to dismantle healthcare reform and undo all of the progress weâeuro(TM)ve made. But, yeah, just the irony for me was the 20-year expanse between, you know, somebody shouting that at me when I was involved with ACT UP, and then 20 years later shouting at me when I was CEO of the AIDS Foundation.
But what it mostly speaks to is the need to just keep up the fight. And to keep vigilant, and to keep diligently raising the issues and raising hell and raising our voices until we have healthcare for all, and until we are living in a country without HIV and AIDS.
So yeah, you know, you canâeuro(TM)t get madâeuro?or I canâeuro(TM)t get madâeuro?about this stuff. I can only get motivated.
WCT: Those are the game-changers, right there. Getting motivated, giving in âeuro* you have to choose one. So Gov. Pat Quinn appointed you to be one of the 22 statewide leaders on the new Illinois Commission to End Hunger. Can you tell us a little bit about this venture in Illinois to improve food security and nutrition through education, better coordinating services and increasing access to programs?
MI: We had our first commission meeting [recently]. Iâeuro(TM)m just thrilled about this opportunity. Itâeuro(TM)s being chaired by the executive director of the Chicago Greater Food Depository and the deputy governor, Cristal Thomas, and it includes all these powerhouses, from Sargent Shriver Center on Poverty Law, to Grace Hou, whoâeuro(TM)s the deputy director of human services for the state of Illinois, and all these advocates for women and children and the hungry. Itâeuro(TM)s a really diverse coalition of people that are committed to ending hunger in Illinois. And Iâeuro(TM)m involved because I know that you cannot address chronic health conditions like HIV/AIDS and everything else unless you have the basics in your life to address your healthcare concerns. And for me, that is food and shelter. So, for my whole career in doing this work, I have been an outspoken advocate for AIDS housing and housing in generalâeuro? for everyoneâeuro?housing for all. I have always been a big, big supporter of food and nutrition programs. Itâeuro(TM)s something that most of us just take for granted, that we get to get up every morning, or at least I do, and have an amazing breakfast, an amazing lunch. Iâeuro(TM)ve never, for one second, been hungry.
And so for me, itâeuro(TM)s a passion: I have a passion for music, I have a passion for endurance training, I have a passion to end AIDS, and I just believe if we cannot ensure that every person in our countryâeuro?and really, the worldâeuro?but in Illinois and the country, cannot have a decent, nutritious meal every day, weâeuro(TM)re failing. And from my AIDS statistics work, there is no way weâeuro(TM)ll be successful in keeping people healthy, keeping them on their meds, unless we make sure that they have food and nutrition. So Iâeuro(TM)m excited, and again, itâeuro(TM)s about the intersections. âeuro* I think one of the reasons theyâeuro(TM)re interested in me is that I come to the anti-hunger and food advocacy world from a different world. Iâeuro(TM)m coming from an AIDS world and from a healthcare world. So thatâeuro(TM)s exciting.
Iâeuro(TM)m always looking for the intersection. Iâeuro(TM)m doing a big project with the National Network to End Domestic Violence, helping build curricula for DV providers and AIDS providers. Thatâeuro(TM)s the kind of stuff that really energizes me: looking at where we can intersect our worlds. Because people with AIDS donâeuro(TM)t live in a silo, theyâeuro(TM)re not just people with AIDSâeuro?theyâeuro(TM)re people with everything else. So thatâeuro(TM)s where Iâeuro(TM)m at, and thatâeuro(TM)s where Iâeuro(TM)m going.
WCT: You are now with AIDS United. Itâeuro(TM)s a merger between the National AIDS Fund (NAF) and AIDS Action combining three decades of HIV/AIDS policy and advocacy. Was there a defining moment when you knew that it was time to switch over from a local office in Chicago to a national office?
MI: I tell people I woke up one morning and I was 47 and Iâeuro(TM)m like, âeurooeOh my God, Iâeuro(TM)ve been at the AIDS Foundation of Chicago since I was 27, Iâeuro(TM)ve got to do something else!âeuro? I want to be clear: I love, love, love, loveâeuro? I canâeuro(TM)t say it enough timesâeuro?the AIDS Foundation of Chicago. I really think it is the bestâeuro?not one of the best; it is the best AIDS organization in the whole world. And I love it. I love the staff. I love the board. I love the community. And together with all these people, I really took the AIDS Foundation, I think, to a great place, doing great work with great impact.
I just felt that it was really a great moment for me to try to do something else on a national level, to have an additional impact, not a better impact or a bigger impact, just a different impact. To sort of bring those skills, and all that good energy, to the national arena, and try to help folks throughout the country collectively figure out if thereâeuro(TM)s a better, more effective way we can be doing our work.
And I was so lucky, just so lucky, to be offered this opportunity to run this new organization and to try to do some really hard work in a really challenging environment. AIDS United is much smaller than the AIDS Foundation of Chicago. Itâeuro(TM)s got a smaller budget, a smaller board, fewer staff, and it has many, many fewer resources. But I felt like I had an opportunity here, especially with the National AIDS Strategy and healthcare reform, to do something just a little bit different.
But you know, I have to say: I never would have stepped away or stepped up to this challenge if it werenâeuro(TM)t for David Munar, my deputy director, who was able toâeuro?and didâeuro?step in as CEO. We didnâeuro(TM)t miss a beat. So I didnâeuro(TM)t know when I was going to leave the AIDS Foundation of Chicago, but I knew that I could leave because I had worked closely with David for almost 20 years, and I believedâeuro?and then the board believed; the board hired him, I did notâeuro?that he was the right person at the right time to lead the organization and take it to the next level.
So I am so proud of so many things at the AIDS Foundation of Chicago, but among the things that Iâeuro(TM)m most proud of is David. And our relationship, and his willingness to âeuro* he was both a great teacher and mentor to me, but he was always wanting to learn, every single day, so that when the time came for him to step up, he could do it, and here he is now.
WCT: And here you are now.
MI: And here I am now. Itâeuro(TM)s funny how things work out. I had no plans. If you would have asked me a year ago, âeurooeOh, well, are you going to leave the AIDS Foundation at the end of the year?âeuro? I would have said, âeurooeAre you insane?âeuro? But you just know when it feels like itâeuro(TM)s the right time, and it felt like it was the right time. And I also think that the AIDS Foundation will be a better and stronger and even cooler place now that Iâeuro(TM)m gone.
WCT: Why do you say that?
MI: Because change is good, you know? Just like I think my arrival at AIDS United is going to be good for AIDS United and the sector. There is a regeneration and a rejuvenation when thereâeuro(TM)s change. Youâeuro(TM)ve just got to seize the moment.
WCT: Carpe them. The world is a better place with you in it.
MI: Thank you. I just feel like the luckiest guy in the whole world, that I get to wake up in the morning, sometimes in Chicago, sometimes in Washington, sometimes in New York, but that I get to wake up in the morning and to do this good work. Itâeuro(TM)s a privilege, and I feel that every single day. At the end, hopefully Iâeuro(TM)m changing the world a little bit, and hopefully Iâeuro(TM)m adding value to the fight, and to peoplesâeuro(TM) lives, most importantly. But I donâeuro(TM)t think for one minute that I am not privileged beyond words to be able to do this work.

Subject: Acquired immune deficiency syndrome--AIDS; Civil rights; Hunger; Gays & lesbians; Commissions

Business indexing term: Subject: Commissions

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Ishaug, Mark

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Mark Ishaug pushes AIDS agenda in Chicago and far beyond

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 26

Issue: 37

Pages: 18-19,22

Number of pages: 3

Publication year: 2011

Publication date: Jun 15, 2011

Section: AIDS @ 30

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 874057233

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mark-ishaug-pushes-aids-ag enda-chicago-far-beyond/docview/874057233/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jun 15, 2011

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

House holds DOMA-DoJ hearing

Author: Keen, Lisa

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/house-holds-doma-doj-hearing/docview/864583991/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "We would agree on so much if we weren't in a hotly contested political arena where its not in anyone's interest to agree issue," said [Maggie Gallagher]. "I believe there are gay people who are wonderful parents," she added. "And it's interesting to me that, no matter how hard I try to avoid it, people interpret what I say as a condemnation of gay people and their parenting skills -cause that's not my intent."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=29&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2011-04-20&amp;atitle=House+holds+DOMA-DoJ+hearing&amp;au=Keen%2C+Lisa&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=29&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2011-04-20&amp;atitle=House+holds+DOMA-DoJ+hearing&amp;au=Keen%2C+Lisa&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Democrats came out swinging April 15 during a House subcommittee hearing on the Department of Justice (DoJ) announcement that it would curtail its defense of the federal ban on recognition of same-sex marriages.
The hearing, entitled "Defending Marriage," was called by Rep. Trent Franks, R-Ariz., the new Republican chairman of the subcommittee.
Franks called only three witnesses - two of which have taken high-profile stances against same-sex marriage and the DoJ decision to limit its defense of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA).
One witness - Ed Whelan, head of a religious conservative think tank called the Ethics and Public Policy Center - claimed the Obama administration's decision to limit its defense was the culmination of a strategy by Obama to promote same-sex marriage.
"I think one would have to be very naïve to think anything other than that [through] a stealth strategy, step-by-step, the administration is doing whatever it can to promote same-sex marriage and to induce the courts to adopt that approach."
Whelan said the fact that President Obama was once a professor of constitutional law "makes all the more implausible that he suddenly discovered" that DOMA is unconstitutional. Whelan did not mention, nor did anyone else, that the DoJ made clear it would continue enforcing DOMA, that it would defend DOMA as meeting the simplest of judicial standards at least in the 1st Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals, and that it would assist Congress in its defense of the law.
Ranking Democrat Jerro Id Nadler pointed out to witness Maggie Gallagher of the National Organization for Marriage that two children in the hearing room had same-sex parents.
"How would you explain to children like McKinley and Brianna who are here with us with their parents today that their family is not deserving and should be excluded from the protections and benefits of marriage, including the important confirmation that the federal government considers them a family," asked Nadler. "Or do you consider these children expendable?"
Gallagher said no child is expendable and defended her position against same-sex marriage, saying she was an unwed mother and understands what it's like to be in a "nonmarital family."
Rep. Mike Quigley, D-IlL, asked Gallagher how people who claim they want government out of their lives could defend DOMA.
"What could be more personal than the decision on who you should love and how to express that love and raising children?" asked Quigley.
"We would agree on so much if we weren't in a hotly contested political arena where its not in anyone's interest to agree issue," said Gallagher. "I believe there are gay people who are wonderful parents," she added. "And it's interesting to me that, no matter how hard I try to avoid it, people interpret what I say as a condemnation of gay people and their parenting skills -cause that's not my intent."
Gallagher said, "the enormous problem in this country" -concerning the survival of marriage - "wasn't caused by gay people and it can't be cured by them."
"But if your concern is to defend marriage, don't you see greater threats being infidelity, domestic violence, alcoholism, drug-use?" asked Quigley. "Those are the things that drive families apart."
Gallagher said she still spends "some" of her time on some of those types of problems, "and if I could wave a magic wand" and eliminate divorce and have gay marriage, "I might wave that wand." But gay marriage, like nofault divorce, she said, changes the sense that marriage is a permanent commitment.
"Same-sex marriage is eventually going to affect everyone's marriage," said Gallagher, "...by changing the public understanding of what this institution is and what it's for."
The third witness, law professor Carlos Ball of Rutgers, got very little time to express his view, defending the Obama administration's decision to curtail its defense of DOMA, saying it was a "careful and thorough" analysis of recent U.S. Supreme Court decisions.
Nadler and Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich., who chaired the Judiciary Committee in the last Congressional session, also admonished Franks for holding a hearing about the DoJ decision without calling a witness from the DoJ. Franks later responded, saying that the House would hold a DoJ oversight hearing in May and then invite the DoJ.
©2011 by Keen News Service. All rights reserved.
Sidebar Maggie Gallagher of the National Organization of Marriage at the DOMA hearing. Photo by Patsy Lynch
AuthorAffiliation BY LISA KEEN
KEEN NEWS SERVICE

Subject: Congressional hearings; Legislatures; Bans; Same sex marriage; Legislators

Location: United States--US

People: Franks, Trent; Nadler, Jerrold; Quigley, Mike

Company / organization: Name: Department of Justice; NAICS: 922130; Name: House of Representatives; NAICS: 921120

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: House holds DOMA-DoJ hearing

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 26

Issue: 29

Pages: 1,6

Number of pages: 2

Publication year: 2011

Publication date: Apr 20, 2011

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 864583991

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/house-holds-doma-doj-hearing/docview/864583991/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Apr 20, 2011

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

U.S. AIDS Confab in Chicago this year

Author: Sosin, Kate

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-aids-confab-chicago-this-year/docview/864583853/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Colón hopes the conference will also put youth issues on the spot. She feels that youth in Chicago aren't worried about HIV because drugs have made AIDS manageable. Colón said she is pushing for more dialogue at the conference on young people and AIDS because, she said "in past conferences, there has not been a lot of attention given to youth. ... HIV/AIDS is not a reality anymore for them."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=29&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=14&amp;date=2011-04-20&amp;atitle=U.S.+AIDS+Confab+in+Chicago+this+year&amp;au=Sosin%2C+Kate&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=29&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=14&amp;date=2011-04-20&amp;atitle=U.S.+AIDS+Confab+in+Chicago+this+year&amp;au=Sosin%2C+Kate&amp;id=doi:

Full text: The country's largest AIDS conference is Chicago-bound this year for the first time in its 15-year history. The United States Conference on AIDS (L)SCA), sponsored by the National Minority AIDS Council and the U.S. Centers for Disease Controland Prevention, will be Nov. 9-13 at the Sheraton Hotel and Towers downtown. The conference has never before been held in the Midwest.
"We got lucky/' said Cynthia Tucker, director of prevention and community partnerships for AIDS Foundation Chicago (AFC) and chair of the USCA host committee. Tucker believes that the conference is an opportunity for Chicago to showcase the work of local service providers, both individually and collectively.
The three-day event is expected to bring in more than 3,500 participants and 150 vendors, with workshops on drug use, domestic violence, HIV prevention in communities of color, transgender health and youth, among others. The event is being hosted by a committee composed of 127 local service providers from the Chicago Department of Public Health, the Illinois Department of Public Health and organizations such as Center on Halsted, Test Positive Aware Network and Vida/SIDA.
The focus of this year's conference will be on gay men, the risk group that experts say is most severely affected by AIDS right now. Tucker said that Chicago was awarded the USCA, in part, because the city is doing a lot to cut down on infection rates among gay men. That's possible, she said, because Chicago organizations talk to each other and share resources through the AFC Service Providers Council, something that has set Chicago apart from many other cities.
"We have a very good surveillance system here in Chicago for tracking ... who is positive, who has AIDS," Tucker said. "We are very organized in Chicago when it comes to care and prevention."
Rosa E. Martínez Colón, assistant director of CALOR and community co-chair of this year's conference, said that Chicago is not only a "model for services," but the city with the fourth largest AIDS problem. Colón said that if Chicago is to continue in its fight against AIDS, service organizations will need more funding and fast.
"I hope that having this conference here is a wake-up call, and we can recharge ourselves," she said. "It's incredible the lack of funding that we have right now."
Last year in Illinois, AIDS prevention and care was flat-funded; while the number of HIV-positive people needing resources and financial assistance increased due a poor economy, funding did not. Hard economic times forced the closure of Better Existence with HIV (BEHIV), a two decade-old AIDS service organization in Edgewater earlier this year.
AIDS advocates believe the USCA is an opportunity to spotlight those hardships in Chicago. "It will be a time for us to put our local politicians and stakeholders to pinpoint their stance on HIV prevention," Tucker said.
Colón hopes the conference will also put youth issues on the spot. She feels that youth in Chicago aren't worried about HIV because drugs have made AIDS manageable. Colón said she is pushing for more dialogue at the conference on young people and AIDS because, she said "in past conferences, there has not been a lot of attention given to youth. ... HIV/AIDS is not a reality anymore for them."
Registration for the conference is open to all. Admission starts at $400, but scholarships are available through application. For more information go to http://www.nmac.org/index/2011usca

Subject: Acquired immune deficiency syndrome--AIDS; Human immunodeficiency virus--HIV; Disease prevention; Conferences

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: U.S. AIDS Confab in Chicago this year

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 26

Issue: 29

Pages: 14

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2011

Publication date: Apr 20, 2011

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 864583853

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-aids-confab-chicago-this-year/docview/864583853/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Apr 20, 2011

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Meredith Baxter on new book, coming out

Author: Nunn, Jerry

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/meredith-baxter-on-new-book-coming-out/docview/820654615/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: MB: I called my manager when I got off the cruise and approached the subject and he said, "By the way, Perez Hilton, The Star, The Globe and The Enquirer are calling us and want to the know the story. They have pictures of you and your girlfriend." I didn't know what was supposed to happen; I wasn't going to deny anything. I just wanted a quiet life - you know, as we do. I was not looking for anything.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=11&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=19&amp;date=2010-12-15&amp;atitle=Meredith+Baxter+on+new+book%2C+coming+out&amp;au=Nunn%2C+Jerry&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=11&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=19&amp;date=2010-12-15&amp;atitle=Meredith+Baxter+on+new+book%2C+coming+out&amp;au=Nunn%2C+Jerry&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Meredith Baxter is best known for her television work, especially with ABC's Family and NBC's Family Ties. She has now become a part of our family by coming out of the closet officially. She talked to Windy City Times about the experience, even providing exclusive information.
Windy City Times: Hello, Meredith. I watched you on TV for years. I was fairly small when Family was out. You won an Emmy for it?
Meredith Baxter: No, I didn't win an Emmy. They sort of misrepresented it but I think they didn't mean to. I have been nominated three times in the past.
WCT: Well, being nominated is great.
MB: Nominated is actually better because those are my peers, the winners are chosen by a committee.
WCT: What led you to audition for Family Ties?
MB: They came to me. I was very lucky.
WCT: Since then you have been doing a lot of charity work and raising awareness for breast cancer.
MB: I have been a speaker for hire for breastcancer awareness [and] domestic violence, and speak from life experience. Not that I have such a riveting life, but I have had lessons that were unique to me that I have learned. So it is very interesting for me to share them.
WCT: Do you want to become a speaker for LGBT issues now?
MB: I have. I have been working with HRC [the Human Rights Campaign] and for Outfest. I am going to do some more events as soon as I go back.
WCT: Great. So let's talk about the whole thing with [Internet gossip columnist] Perez Hilton. Did he put you on the spot?
MB: I went on this cruise that part of We Have To Stop Now, which you may not know about but it is a web series. We were filming on the cruise. It was a lesbian series so I thought I am courting this, I understand what I am doing. I was thinking I would have to address it when I get off the cruise. I didn't know if I should put an ad in the paper. I didn't know what you do in a situation like this!
WCT: Well, sure.
MB: I called my manager when I got off the cruise and approached the subject and he said, "By the way, Perez Hilton, The Star, The Globe and The Enquirer are calling us and want to the know the story. They have pictures of you and your girlfriend." I didn't know what was supposed to happen; I wasn't going to deny anything. I just wanted a quiet life - you know, as we do. I was not looking for anything. Because there was a threat of The Enquirer particularly going public with it and making up a story. They will take a grain of truth and make what they want out of it. It becomes ugly, sneaky and I didn't want that.
[Tears up] I am feeling now what I felt that day when Howard Bragman, who was my PR guy, became my pub li c-re lati on s person because he is very good with bringing out LGBT [individuals] in the community. He said the first thing we need to do is get you on the Today show. I said, "What? No, no, no- this is not right. I shouldn't have to do this."
WCT: You were forced into coming out, which is not fair.
MB: Yes, well life isn't fair, but it was baptism by fire. I had to work myself into getting okay with going on there. I don't know if you saw it but it was horrifying! Matt Lauer asked, "Is there something you want to tell us?" I was thinking, "Aren't you going to say it?" But it was fine. He was lovely. I have to say that was the worst. It has been fabulous ever since. I have a freedom now that I never expected.
WCT: Now you will have new fans that can support you that you didn't have before.
MB: That's right.
WCT: Whatever you would like to promote your gay fans can stand behind you now.
MB: Okay, then I will start with you and tell you that I am promoting a book. It will not be out until April but I have to start now. It is called Who Knew and it is not just about coming out - it is about my life. The belief system that we develop as a child based on whatever is happening to us so it is universal, not just my story. I made some very negative choices in the past.
WCT: Well, we all have.
MB: I just did an interview with someone and they asked if I was living a lie all those years that I was married. I said, "When you live a life as unexamined as mine I could have been a frog and not have known it." So it was not a surprise and when it dawned on me that it made a lot of sense. Not that I was trying not to be a lesbian but it felt really right.
WCT: Oh, I know. The first time I kissed a guy I cried. I had been pushing everything back for so long.
MB: That makes me want to cry; it is so touching for you to say that.
WCT: How far along are you in the writing process for your book?
MB: I just delivered the third draft.
WCT: Oh, so you are coming right along. Well, you have to come back to Chicago on a book tour. I look forward to reading it when it comes out.
MB: Thanks so much.

Subject: Actors; Gays & lesbians; Television programs; Books

People: Baxter, Meredith

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Meredith Baxter on new book, coming out

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 26

Issue: 11

Pages: 19

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2010

Publication date: Dec 15, 2010

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill .

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 820654615

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/meredith-baxter-on-new-book-coming-out/docview/820654615/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Dec 15, 2010

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

PASSAGES: Elizabeth Tocci

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/passages-elizabeth-tocci/docview/818499398/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Elizabeth E. Tocci, a Chicago Gay & Lesbian HaLL of Fame inductee who owned and ran Calumet City's The Patch - which became one of the oLdest Lesbian-owned establishments in the country - passed away Dec. 5 in her sleep.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=10&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2010-12-08&amp;atitle=PASSAGES%3A+Elizabeth+Tocci&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=10&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2010-12-08&amp;atitle=PASSAGES%3A+Elizabeth+Tocci&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Elizabeth E. Tocci, a Chicago Gay & Lesbian HaLL of Fame inductee who owned and ran Calumet City's The Patch - which became one of the oLdest Lesbian-owned establishments in the country - passed away Dec. 5 in her sleep.
Tocci was born on the South Side of Chicago and raised in the PuLLman and RoseLand areas of the city, according to the haLL's website. She opened her first gay bar, the 307 CLub, in 1963. She then opened The Patch in 1971.
Tocci supported various causes, including the Changing Woman Center, a counseling center for victims of domestic violence and rape; the Calumet City Resource Center; and Chicago House. She also sponsored women's sports, offering financial and moral backing for softbaLL, basketbaLL, flag-footbaLL and bowling teams.
Tocci's viewing wiLL take pLace Friday, Dec. 10, at Thornridge Funeral Home, 15801 S. Cottage Grove, Dolton, 2-9 p.m. The funeraL is set for Saturday, Dec. 11, at 11 a.m. at Thornridge; the interment wiLL foLLow at HoLy Cross Cemetery, 801 Michigan City Rd., Calumet City.
More information about Tocci wiLL be posted as it becomes available.
Sidebar Left: Toed is third from left (in glasses) in a 1988 edition of Outlines. Right: Toed is on the right in a photo from the Gay Chicago archives.

Subject: Deaths

People: Tocci, Elizabeth E

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: PASSAGES: Elizabeth Tocci

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 26

Issue: 10

Pages: 10

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2010

Publication date: Dec 8, 2010

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 818499398

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/passages-elizabeth-tocci/docview/818499398/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Dec 8, 2010

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

The Piano Teacher

Author: Barnidge, Mary Shen

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/piano-teacher/docview/854921946/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Atrocities don't stop at first-hand witnesses, however. Cruelty, with its implication of dominance, exerts its own fascination (what Sunday-School pupil hasn't wondered just what it would feel like to be nailed to a cross?). For those not yet firmly grounded in their abhorrence of inhumanity, the cautionary tales of parents - particularly when recounted too vividly - can backfire in their intent. Playgoers striving to pinpoint the source of Mr.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=7&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=21&amp;date=2010-11-17&amp;atitle=The+Piano+Teacher&amp;au=Barnidge%2C+Mary+Shen&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=7&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=21&amp;date=2010-11-17&amp;atitle=The+Piano+Teacher&amp;au=Barnidge%2C+Mary+Shen&amp;id=doi:

Full text: THEATER REVIEW
The Piano Teacher
Playwright: Julia Cho
At: Next Theatre at the Noyes Arts Center, 927 Noyes, Evanston
Phone: 847-475-1875; $30-$40
Runs through: Dec. 8
Julia Cho's play is set in the kind of prim, cozy, afghan-on-the-chair, quilt-on-the-sofa room occupied by the kind of sweet, smily, cookie-baking granny that immediately has us scrutinizing the furnishings for hints to where the bodies are buried. Our foreboding proves to be accurate - but whenever we start to anticipate the same old story (pedophilia), or the same old old story (domestic abuse), or even the same old old old story (nazis), our bogeyman's face suddenly changes to reveal a visage as provocatively sympathetic as it is horrifying.
Certainly, our cheerful hostess is no Hanseland-Gretel witch. Herself a musical prodigy with a career sabotaged by an illness affecting her auditory skills, she chose to serve her muse through introducing others to its transcendent power. The escape afforded by the immersion necessary to playing piano is a blessing for this woman who asks to be called only "Mrs. K" - her surname, she assures us, being too complicated for us to pronounce. Oh, she knew when she married the now-deceased Mr. K that he was a damaged man, prone to nightmares stemming from boyhood events, but surely, the safety of their quiet American suburb will banish those memories.
Atrocities don't stop at first-hand witnesses, however. Cruelty, with its implication of dominance, exerts its own fascination (what Sunday-School pupil hasn't wondered just what it would feel like to be nailed to a cross?). For those not yet firmly grounded in their abhorrence of inhumanity, the cautionary tales of parents - particularly when recounted too vividly - can backfire in their intent. Playgoers striving to pinpoint the source of Mr. K's experiences will find it a futile exercise - at what time in history has somebody in the world NOT been engaged in slaughtering somebody else?
Mrs. K's confession requires Mary Ann Thebus, between confrontations with two former students brave enough to re-visit the scene of their turmoil, to soliloquize for over 90 minutes - itself an impressive verbal feat, even without the subtextual shadings associated with Mrs. K's gradual loss of innocence, along with that of the children she would protect against the pain of a harsh universe. Cho may linger a bit in her disclosures - her characters have a tendency to preface their significant speeches - but the light she shines on an oft-ignored phenomenon will haunt you forever after.

Subject: Theater

Location: Evanston Illinois; United States--US

People: Cho, Julia

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: The Piano Teacher

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 26

Issue: 7

Pages: 21

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2010

Publication date: Nov 17, 2010

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Theater Review

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 854921946

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/piano-teacher/docview/854921946/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Nov 17, 2010

Last updated: 2023-08-28

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

calendar Q

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calendar-q/docview/808384386/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Carpenters Halloween It's the return of The Scooty & JoJo Show's cult hit Carpenters Halloween, the spine-shivering send-up of John Carpenter's slasher classic set to the The Carpenters' classic songs. Opening Oct. 21 and plays only 8 performances through Oct. 31. $15-$25 per person. 8 p.m., Circuit Night Club, 3641 N Halsted St, http://www.scootyjojo.com

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=3&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=32&amp;date=2010-10-20&amp;atitle=calendar+Q&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=3&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=32&amp;date=2010-10-20&amp;atitle=calendar+Q&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Wed., Oct. 20 Vh
Toni Morrison in Conversation with O ? rah The Chicago Public Library and the Chicago Public Library Foundation are honored to announce that Nobel and Pulitzer Prizewinning author Toni Morrison will appear in conversation with Oprah Winfrey at the annual Carl Sandburg Literary Awards Dinner. 6 p.m., The Forum at University of Illinois at Chicago, 725 W. Roosevelt
Forum on Intersection of Faith and the LGBTQ Community How faith informs our search for justice for the LGBTQ Community and how it leads and informs our lives as LGBTQ people, with diverse set of faith leaders and open discussion from the floor; open to all faiths; Outreach Committee: Collins Hunter, Dalila Fridi, Ed Mullen, Jacob Meister, Jim Bennett, Ky Dickens, Kristen Kaza, LowellJaffe, Pastor ? Fred Kinsey; 6 p.m., All Saints Episcopal Church, 4550 N. Hermitage
Equality Illinois Night of 100 Drag Queens - 2010 A Space Oddity Equality Illinois Night of 100 Drag Queens - 2010 A Space Oddity is sure to please! This is a great night of entertainment and community support; 7 p.m., Sidetrack, 3349 N Halsted St, http://www.equalityillinois.org
Tracy Bairn, author of new book: Obama and the Gays: A Political Marriage Chicago-based journalist Tracy Bairn offers an in-depth look at Obama's trajectory on gay issuess, including documents, photos, and interviews with Obama illustrating how his views on LGBT issues have changed over the years, as well as the accomplishments and stumbles of his presidential administration. 7:30 p.m., Women & Children First, 5233 N. Clark, http:// www.obamaandthegays.com
Thursday, Oct. 21
Women Like Me Are you currently or previously married, but think that you might be lesbian, bisexual, or gay? If so, joins us for Women Like Me, an ongoing women's discussion and support group. In an open discussion format, we'll address topics unique to women who have previously identifies as straight, such as: Coming out to family, friends, and at work, Parent/ Child Issues, Marital separation & divorce; 6 p.m., 4025 N Sheridan Road, Chicago IL, http://howardbrown.org/uploadedfiles/ servi ces_and_programs/older_adult_services/women%20like%20me%20flyer.pdf
Make a Statement: Design for the Cure The AIDS Foundation of Chicago Junior Board's signature event, Make a Statement: Design for the Cure, is at River East Art Center. Tickets are on sale now! 6:30 p.m., River East Art Center 435 E. Illinois, Chicago, 60611, http://www.aidschicago. org/events/make_a_statement.php
Lambda Legal Women's Autumn Kick-Off Have drink and learn about volunteer opportunities. Ts to donate 10% of proceeds to Lambda Legal. 6:30 p.m., Ts Restaurant and Bar, 5025 N Clark, http://www. lambdalegal.org/events
Friday, Oct. 22
Big Gay Pudding White Rainbows presents Big Gay Pudding, proving once and for all that the proof is indeed in the pudding. You will laugh, you will cry, and if you are lucky you may see some people in their underwear. Add a teaspoon of vanilla, a dash of fun, a cup of laughs and chill for about 45 minutes every Friday and Saturday thru Oct. 23 at 8 p.m. at The Call, 1547 W. Bryn Mawr, http://whiterainbowschicago.wordpress.com
Chicago Black Gay Men's Caucus and the Vote Naked campaign After-work event to socialize, grab a drink and support a great cause: voting in the up-coming mid-term elections. Scarlet Bar will provide drink specials for event attendees: $4 mixers $4 domestic $4 wine. Info: Alexander Sewell, alexander.c.sewell@gmail. com; 7 p.m., 773-991-5341, Scarlet, 3320 N Halsted, http://www.youtube.com/ watch?v=ncqp3r2iafg
Carpenters Halloween It's the return of The Scooty & JoJo Show's cult hit Carpenters Halloween, the spine-shivering send-up of John Carpenter's slasher classic set to the The Carpenters' classic songs. Opening Oct. 21 and plays only 8 performances through Oct. 31. $15-$25 per person. 8 p.m., Circuit Night Club, 3641 N Halsted St, http://www.scootyjojo.com
Violence Recovery Project panel For professionals interested in learning more about intimate partner violence in LGBTQ relationships. Pre-registration is required. Space is limited. vrp@howardbrown.org; 10am, 773-388-8882, Howard Brown Health Center, 4025 N Sheridan Rd, http ://www. ho wardbro wn .org
NUGALA 15th Annual Homecoming Northwestern University Gay and Lesbian Alumni invite alumni and friends to celebrate their 15th Annual Homecoming party with a mixer featuring a private 3 hour topshelf open bar with hors d'oeuvres service. RSVP online. 8:30 p.m., (773) 871-6227, Minibar Ultra Lounge and Cafe, 3341 N Halsted, http://www.alum ni. northwestern. edu/nugala
Open Mie Show with Amy Armstrong & Lloyd Young A new open mie, with a new attitude! Come out and jam with us on FRIDAY NIGHTS. More songs to choose from for you to sing, with the same awesomeness that is Amy & Lloyd. Its BETTER THAN EVER! 9 p.m., Rehab Lounge, 3641 N Halsted, http://www.facebook.com/reqs. php#!/pages/amy-lloyd/168477356081
Saturday, Oct. 23
Affinity Celebrates 15 years of service Honoring the organization's founders and founding board members. E. Patrick Johnson, star of Sweet Tea will emcee. $30. 1 p.m., Sidetrack, 3349 N Halsted St, http://www.affinity95.org
Dream Halloween Chicago for Children Affected by AIDS Foundation Toys R US & Mattel will bring together children affected by AIDS for a safe and enjoyable Halloween experience with family fun, fabulous food, stage performances, face painting by MAC Cosmetics and character appearances by Barbie®, Beetlejuice, Bugs Bunny(TM), Shrek® and more! $200 adults, $100 children 13 years and under. 5 p.m., 312-580-1150, Windy City Fieldhouse, 2367 West Logan Blvd. , Chicago
It Takes a Village, People! is the first gaythemed production from Salsation Theatre Company, NFP; 5:30 p.m., 773-598-4549, Gorilla Tango Theatre 1919 N Milwaukee Ave, http://www.salsation.com
Chicago Women's AIDS Project, Women living with HIV 3rd annual conference for women living with HIV: Positive and Powerful, We're Still Standing! A full day of workshops, activism, food and fun. cwapconference@gmail.com; 8:30 p.m., 773-262-5566 ext 202, UIC School of Mediane, 1853 W. Polk
DJ Phil DaBeatz at Hydrate Popular DJ sensation, DJ Phil DaBeatz will be spinning at Hydrate this Saturday. 10 p.m., Hydrate, 3458 N. Halsted, http://www.hydratechicago.com
The Rocky Horror Show Just in time for the Halloween, NightBlue Performing Arts Company presents their restaged production of the crowd-pleasing, cult classic musical "The Rocky Horror Show." Audiences are encouraged to dress up as their favorite Rocky Horror characters. 11:30 p.m., 773-327-5252, Stage773, 1225 W. BeLmont, http://www.stage773.com
Sunday, Oct. 24
Haunted Halsted Pub Crawl Join the Feast of Fun as they go from bar to select bar on Halsted Street for a ghoulish cavalcade of depraved delights. The Crawl kicks off at 2 p.m. at Berlin with fantastic zombie ^ makeovers and New York City drag sensation Mimi Imfurst. The tour includes Spin, Scarlet, Roscoe's and Hydrate. 2 p.m., Boystown (various locations), http:// www.hauntedhalsted.com
Massage in a Bottle fundraiser for BEHIV Massage Therapy Program Volunteers will be at the following bars from 2 -5 p.m. selling raffle tickets and conducting drink/shot specials: Big Chicks, Crew, The Glenwood, Ravenswood Pub, Parlour on Clark. Everyone will then gather at Atmosphere from 5 -8 p.m. for a wrap-up party and karaoke. Members of BEHIVs Board of Directors and staff will be visiting all six locations via a trolley. 2 p.m., Andersonville, Edgewater and Uptown., http:// www.behiv.org
GLBT Documentary Film Series, Susan Stryker, Screaming Queens Oak Park Parents and Friends of Lesbians and Gays (PFLAG) and the Oak Park Public Library announce a ree and open to the public series of four documentaries which will be shown at the Library on Sunday afternoons in October. Author, director, and transgender activist Susan Stryker will speak following the screening of Screaming Queens; 2:30 p.m., Oak Park Public Library, 834 Lake, Oak Park, http://www. oppl.org
Monday, Oct. 25
Trevor Project benefit Roscoe's hosts a benefit for The Trevor Project, the national organization focused on crisis and suicide prevention efforts among lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and questioning (LGBTQ) youth, with cabaret act Amy and Freddie, performers from The Baton Show Lounge, Frida Lay, Debbie Fox, Honey West and many more. 10 p.m., Roscoe's Tavern, 3356 N Halsted, http://www.roscoes.com
City of Hope: Chicago Cares For one night only, the talented cast and crew of Disney's The Lion King and Billy Elliot will join together to present City of Hope: Chicago Cares-a concert featuring song, dance, and spoken word. $40 General Admission, $75 VIP. All proceeds benefit Chicago House and Broadway Cares/Equity Fights AIDS (BC/EFA ); 7 p.m., Royal George Theatre, 1641 N Halsted, http:// www.chicagohouse.org
Tuesday, Oct. 26
Women On Top: pH balanced for her Women On Top is an original improv comedy show spotlighting the fairer side of pH Productions' vast, eclectic ensemble. We boast one of the largest, most hilarious collection of female comedy performers in Chicago. Women On Top is their chance to create comedy without all that nasty testosterone getting in the way. 8 p.m., 773.732.5450, Studio BE 3110 N. Sheffield, http://whatisph.com
Volunteer for the Quinn/Simon Campaign Every Tuesday from 5:30-8:30 is LGBT night at the phone bank. Involves calling democrats or people who have voted democrat in the past to gain their insight of who they are going to be voting for. Its actually a great time, good chance to meet people, and become politically involved with a cute crowd. 5:30 p.m., 676 N Lasalle, 3rd Floor
Wed., Oct. 27
Tracy Bairn, author of new book: Obama and the Gays: A Political Marriage Chicago-based journalist Tracy Bairn offers an in-depth look at Obama's trajectory on gay issuess, including documents, photos, and interviews with Obama illustrating how his views on LGBT issues have changed over the years, as well as the accomplishments and stumbles of his presidential administration. 7:30 p.m., Women & Children First, 5233 N. Clark, http://www. obamaandthegays.com
Chicago Area G/L Chamber of Commerce Mix & Mingle Networking Event Networking opportunity and celebration of Halloween. 6 p.m., Illinois Nut & Candy, 3745 W. Dempster, Skokie, http://www. glchamber.org
Sunday, Oct. 31
14th Annual Halloween Parade hosted by Miss Foozie. This year's theme is "Little Street of Horrors," taken from the Hollywood film and Broadway show "Little Shop of Horrors." 6 p.m., Halsted Street, North to Grace, http://www.northalsted.com/ pages/halloween_on_halsted/31.php
Sidebar POLITICS OF TRUTH
Wed., Oct. 20 and 27
Tracy Bairn will discuss her book, Obama and the Gays at Women & Children First, 5233 N. Clark, and the Harold Washington Library, 400 S. State.
Sidebar DARG LADY
Wed., Oct. 20
Equality Illinois' Night of 100 Drag Queens concludes at Sidetrack, 3349 N. Halsted.
Sidebar MODEL SERVICE
Thursday, Oct. 21
AIDS Foundation of Chicago's Junior Board will hold "Design for a Cure" at the River East Art Center, 435 E Illinois.
Get calendar Q online:
WindyCityMediaGroup.com
ChicagoPride.com

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: calendar Q

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 26

Issue: 3

Pages: 32

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2010

Publication date: Oct 20, 2010

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 808384386

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calendar-q/docview/808384386/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 20, 2010

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Scott Lee Cohen on LGBTs, comeback

Author: Maxwell, Carrie

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/scott-lee-cohen-on-lgbts-comeback/docview/808378342/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: I don't know all of the issues regarding LGBT equality so I want to find out about all the issues. Why do we have to have "Don't Ask, Don't Tell?" It doesn't make sense to me since it's a type of discrimination against gays and lesbians and I think it should be abolished - but will the Senate abolish it as quickly as you are asking? I don't know.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=3&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2010-10-20&amp;atitle=Scott+Lee+Cohen+on+LGBTs%2C+comeback&amp;au=Maxwell%2C+Carrie&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=3&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2010-10-20&amp;atitle=Scott+Lee+Cohen+on+LGBTs%2C+comeback&amp;au=Maxwell%2C+Carrie&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Headnote ELECTIONS'10: GOVERNOR
Fresh from an endorsement by the National Taxpayers of Illinois, where he pledged to have tax accountability and not raise income taxes, Windy City Times met with independent Illinois gubernatorial candidate Scott Lee Cohen to talk about a variety of issues - including why he decided to run after being asked to give up being the candidate for lieutenant governor.
Windy City Times: How would you describe yourself?
Scott Lee Cohen: I see myself as an easygoing, determined, open-minded, caring, compassionate person who is fiscally conservative and socially liberal.
WCT: Why did you decide to run for governor as an independent after dropping out of the race as the lieutenant governor candidate for the Democratic ticket?
SLC: I put my heart and soul into running for lieutenant governor. When the Democratic Party went against me it crushed me because all I wanted to do was help the people. When I stepped down I started getting phone calls and e-mails. People were coming to my house and knocking on my door. The consensus among friends and strangers was that the Democratic Party had no right to take away their vote.
The people of Illinois are hurting and I had something to offer with my business and life experience. This state does not need perfection; it needs honesty and transparency, which I have to offer. I was totally honest about my life so I listened to the people. I'm thinking about why I ran and for me to just step down and not run. It would be just like Jack Ryan or Blair Hull, who never got involved in politics again. Most importantly, I had the desire to run, which is why I got back into the race.
WCT: What was your reaction when numerous top Illinois Democratic politicians called for you to withdraw from the lieutenant governor's race?
I was hurt and crushed because the Democratic Party led me to believe that the people of Illinois hated me, which wasn't true. They were a little confused but they didn't hate me. They admired my honesty and they believed in me as a person.
WCT: Do you feel that your candidacy will take votes away from your former running mate, Gov. Quinn? If no, then why not?
SLC: Forty-six percent of the people of Illinois are independent voters, and the reason why they have not voted for anyone other than a Republican or a Democrat is because there hasn't been a candidate that they wanted to vote for. Now I believe there is a candidate they can vote for because I will be pulling from both the Democrats and Republicans.
WCT: What was it that you liked about Gov. Quinn that made you want to run as lieutenant governor with him?
SLC: Nothing, since we didn't run together - but my view was that, as lieutenant governor, I would have the authority and the power to bring businesses back to Illinois through the Illinois Main Street program. At the time, Illinois was going to lose that program due to lack of interest. I knew I would be his partner and it didn't mean that I liked him. When Gov. Quinn told me he was going to cut the budget and take away any of the responsibilities of the lieutenant governor's so I'm thinking without any power how am I going to help the people of Illinois. I am not the type of person who can take a paycheck and do nothing because that to me is like lying and cheating. I can't do it so I said forget it I am done.
WCT: Would your objectives be achieved in other ways than running for governor?
SLC: No, and here is why: In order to move Illinois forward and in order to bring businesses and jobs back to Illinois Bill Brady can't do it and neither can Gov. Quinn. They have never been successful businessmen. They don't know what it is like for a businessman to struggle to meet payroll, work within a budget, make appropriate budget cuts and spend wisely. I could have helped small groups but that was not my plan; I want to help everyone in Illinois by bringing the jobs back and putting people back to work. I want to bring hope and prosperity back to this state because we haven't seen it in at least a decade.
WCT: You support strict enforcement of the new hate-crimes law. Can you tell me your positions on ENDA [the Employment NonDiscrimination Act] and marriage equality for same-sex couples as well as repealing "Don't Ask, Don't Tell?" Also, do you support the right of same-sex binational couples having the same immigration rights as straight couples have? What about HIV/ AIDS funding?
SLC: I believe these hate crimes have got to end. I am a strong advocate for the LGBT community. It blows my mind that Quinn, who is a Democrat, doesn't do enough to help the community. He really doesn't, but he talks a good game with regards to LGBT equality.
On the issue of ENDA people can't discriminate based on sexual orientation- just like they shouldn't discriminate on any other factors. I am a small-business owner and there are people who work for me who are openly gay. I have never discriminated against anyone in my life and I feel that it's not OK for anyone to discriminate against the LGBT community - not just in Illinois but anybody across the USA.
On marriage equality I am 110 percent for civil unions and I believe... Listen, if it were up to me, I would say same-sex marriage is fine; I have no problem with it and let's go for it. I think that getting same-sex marriage passed through the legislature is going to be an uphill battle, but I'm not saying it will never happen. I am talking to you honestly and I would sign any bill that came across my desk to allow for samesex marriages. [However,] until we get to that point I think it's important for same-sex couples to share the benefits, and they aren't getting them. You can't get family leave if someone dies and you are in a same-sex relationship so there is no equality there. So civil unions, until we get to same-sex marriage, allows for insurance benefits and family leave.
I don't know all of the issues regarding LGBT equality so I want to find out about all the issues. Why do we have to have "Don't Ask, Don't Tell?" It doesn't make sense to me since it's a type of discrimination against gays and lesbians and I think it should be abolished - but will the Senate abolish it as quickly as you are asking? I don't know. There are still some old-time politicians who aren't open-minded, and you know that they are a part of the problem that Illinois is having today.
I support the right for same-sex binational couples to have equal immigration rights as straight binational couples already have.
As for HIV/AIDS funding it should be funded more but the state is broke, so for me to sit here as a candidate and say that if elected I am going to give you $100 million would be a lie. I will tell you this: I won't cut any of the funding. I have to do my audit and when I know where my money is going I can reallocate funding by getting rid of some programs that are redundant and outdated and reallocate funds to what is important in today's society. I am not cutting the funding for HIV/AIDS patients drug access.
WCT: Are you holding any fundraisers geared specifically for the LGBT community?
SLC: I have tried to reach out to a couple of organizations and they would not meet with me. It's because I am an independent and it's not just LGBT organizations that have refused to meet with me. I have gotten resistance from other organizations due to my independent status.
WCT: What are your thoughts on education, including funding?
SLC: I was very upset when the Illinois Education Association endorsed Quinn because here is a man who cuts education spending by $310 million and, in the same week, turns around and give his staff raises. You can't do that.
I was walking in the Gay Pride parade and you know it's a very crowded parade. I heard someone screaming my name and she runs out and said, "Mr. Cohen please talk with me for a moment?" I walked over and she [said], "Sorry to bother you but I am a teacher and I have over 32 students in my class. I love teaching but I can't teach when I have this many students." I gave her my card and said you are preaching to the choir so call me. However, when that same incident happened to Quinn he wouldn't talk to the lady at all. I want to sit down with the teachers and hear from them what works and what doesn't work and come up with a plan.
I want to know why so many kids get passed to the next grades that are illiterate. What is the point of all this testing when students can't even read and write properly? I say go to school and learn all the subjects because I get test score after test score on my kid and what are we doing all of this for? So that schools can get funding from the feds? Illinois education funding was cut by $100 million by the federal government so why wasn't Gov. Quinn on a plane to Washington D. C. screaming at the President about this. Illinois is the President's hometown and he is going to take money away from the children? If Quinn had demanded an answer something better would have come out of that. This is what it takes.
WCT: What are your thoughts regarding a high school geared specifically for LGBT students, similar to the Harvey Milk High School in New York City?
SLC: An LGBT person should be integrated into society. If we put them into a school with only LGBT kids, isn't that saying there is something wrong with them? That is the message that a specific school aimed at LGBT students would send to the public. [However,] I would support an LGBT high school if students and parents wanted one.
WCT: What about bullying in schools?
SLC: My youngest son is very heavy and his confidence is shattered because of all the bullying he gets so, yes, I am a big advocate for anti-bullying laws. Gov. Quinn can sign a million laws on the books but he has to have the ability to implement these laws by rolling up his sleeves and seeing that these laws are carried out, which is what I would do if elected. Also, educating the adults involved - including teachers, principals, support staff, parents and community leaders - about the effects of bullying is key, and I say this as someone who was bullied in school myself.
WCT: What are your comments on the upcoming Chicago mayoral race now that Mayor Daley has decided to retire?
SLC: I was shocked and a little sad that Daley decided to step down because he was the mayor for over 20 years and has done many good things for the city. Unfortunately, he is only going to be remembered for two things: selling the parking meters and the skyway. He was the only Democrat that stood up and said I was honest and to let me run for office.
WCT: How do you feel about term limits?
SLC: I'm all for two terms for both state and local offices, but if you are a good leader and not a crook you should be able to run for office after going back to the private sector following your two terms in office.
WCT: What if politicians want to atone?
SLC: People are tired ofthat and you should be given one chance and if you mess up again then you should get out of politics.
WCT: How do you reconcile what you say are your campaign goals (i.e., ethics) with the allegations (e.g., domestic abuse against women) that have been levied against you?
SLC: What the people heard were half-truths and lies, and if we continue to focus on the past we will never bring any issue forward.
Now, with the exception of the media, no one has asked me about my past. People know that when you are in a relationship including a divorce things are said and done that aren't true and I will tell you this: I was always honest with the people of Illinois. I had a constitutional right to expunge and seal all of my records so that none of this would have been known but for me to do that and turn around and say I'm going to lead Illinois in an honest and transparent way would be a lie. That's why I never sealed anything because I wanted the people to see it and make up their own minds.
WCT: Why do you think you can win?
SLC: I can absolutely win this election. People are tired of the career politicians who have worked hard to dig us a hole, a $14 billion deficit and 10-percent unemployment. They haven't worked hard to get us out of it and until we elect a new face with fresh ideas and a fresh perspective Illinois will not get back on the right road. We have the resources to get the message out and I am thankful and humbled by the amount of support I am getting from people of Illinois. I believe that together we can win this election.
WCT: Is there anything else you would like to say to the readers of Windy City Times?
SLC: I want the LGBT community to know that as we talked about earlier in this interview that I myself have been discriminated against in many different areas - for being Jewish, for being an independent candidate, for being honest. As governor I will have an open-door policy for the LGBT [community] that I would not only want but would welcome members of the community to sit down with me, to be a part of an advisory board or steering community, to make life better, safer and to help me be able to help them.
See http://www.scottleecohen.com.
To read an interview with Gov. Pat Quinn, visit http://www.windycitymediagroup.com/ gay/lesbian/news/ARTICLE.php?AID=283l3.
Attempts to reach the Republican candidate, Bill Brady, have not been returned.

Subject: Candidates; Governors; State elections; Political campaigns; Gays & lesbians; Human rights

People: Cohen, Scott Lee

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Scott Lee Cohen on LGBTs, comeback

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 26

Issue: 3

Pages: 16

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2010

Publication date: Oct 20, 2010

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 808378342

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/scott-lee-cohen-on-lgbts-comeback/docview/808378342/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 20, 2010

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Sheila Simon on her office and equality

Author: Streit, Meghan

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sheila-simon-on-her-office-equality/docview/808378332/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: SS: The duties of the lieutenant governor are fairly open-ended. The state constitution requires the lieutenant governor to be available to replace the governor, and that's about it as far as constitutional duties go. There are some important statutory duties, like heading the Rural Council and the Illinois River Coordinating Council. But there are a lot of open-ended opportunities.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=3&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=15&amp;date=2010-10-20&amp;atitle=Sheila+Simon+on+her+office+and+equality&amp;au=Streit%2C+Meghan&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=3&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=15&amp;date=2010-10-20&amp;atitle=Sheila+Simon+on+her+office+and+equality&amp;au=Streit%2C+Meghan&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Headnote ELECTIONS'10: LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR
Sheila Simon is a candidate for Illinois' lieutenant governor. Simon is a lawyer, professor and working mother. After graduating from Georgetown University Law School in 1987, she worked for Land of Lincoln Legal Assistance, where she advocated for people facing domestic violence, discrimination and loss of housing. She also helped to start Southern Illinois University Law School's domestic-violence clinic. Simon comes from a legacy of public service. Her parents, Paul and Jeanne Simon, served in the Illinois House together. (Paul was also a former lieutenant governor, U.S. representative and U.S. senator.)
Windy City Times: Can you begin with a brief overview of your professional and public service experience that you believe has prepared you for the position of lieutenant governor?
Sheila Simon: I am taking a leave right now as a professor at the law school at Southern Illinois University. Before that I was a prosecutor for a while. I prosecuted all the traffic cases in Jackson County for two years and domestic battery cases for two years. I've been on the City Council in Carbondale. I was in private practice for a while. And, I am a wife and a mom - so, all important qualifications, in my opinion.
WCT: Many people are unfamiliar with the office of lieutenant governor. What do you think are the most important duties of lieutenant governor, and why are you seeking the office?
SS: The duties of the lieutenant governor are fairly open-ended. The state constitution requires the lieutenant governor to be available to replace the governor, and that's about it as far as constitutional duties go. There are some important statutory duties, like heading the Rural Council and the Illinois River Coordinating Council. But there are a lot of open-ended opportunities. I am looking forward to using the office of lieutenant governor to get citizens more information about what levels of government can provide them as far as services and get information from citizens of Illinois about where we need to go in the state.
WCT: What are some of the public policy issues that are most important to you, and how would you use the office to make progress on those issues?
SS: I think the most important issue to me and everyone else is the economy and the state of the state economy. The governor has been doing a good job in preserving Illinois and bringing jobs to Illinois, but I would like to do more of that. One of the key ways I think I can help in that area is in the field of education. I think having strong public education in Illinois is the key to making sure we can build and attract jobs in Illinois.
WCT: Tell us why you think you and Gov. Quinn would make a good team.
SS: I think we already are a good team. He had a hand in picking me, and part of it is because we work together really well. We have the same sense of priorities in terms of jobs, in terms of education, in terms of environmental issues. So I really think we will be better able to work as team more than most pairs of governor and lieutenant governor who have been elected much more separately.
WCT: On the flip side, if you had been serving with Gov. Quinn since he took office, is there anything you would have advised him to do differently?
SS: We discussed this before I was selected - that we won't agree on everything. I can't imagine two people who would agree on everything. But, on the big deal issues, I think we share a sense of priorities. What I would like to bring to the process is a different perspective on things, and a different emphasis on some issues. As a teacher, education is really important to me, and the governor has indicated he would like to make me his point person on education. That is an important role where I think I will bring something extra to the administration - not just the same thing, but maybe a stronger sense of advocacy.
WCT: What have you done or what would you like to do to ensure equality for LGBT people in Illinois?
SS: I can tell you just in my own personal life, I am a strong advocate for equality for everyone, and certainly "everyone" includes the LGBT community. I served on the LGBT task force at Southern Illinois University to review our policies there, and as a result of that, we made some changes on our campus. As a lawyer, I have represented pro bono several parents who have sought a second-parent adoption, which is more of a common thing up in the Chicago area, but is not so common here in southern Illinois. And I am proud to say that there are families in southern Illinois who are complete legal families partly as a result of my help as an advocate for the children.
WCT: Do you support the legalization of same-sex marriage in Illinois?
SS: I do support same-sex marriage. This is one of those areas where the governor and I have - we agree that civil unions are a good step forward. I would like to make same-sex marriage available, and I think we're moving in that direction. I think there is growing acceptance in society, and recognition that there are healthy, loving relationships that come in a lot of varieties. And we are better off if we recognize and support those relationships rather than try to exclude some from recognition.
WCT: Is there anything else you would like voters to know about you and your goals?
SS: The one thing I would like to add is the critical importance of this election, not just in the LGBT community, but for everyone. In a time where many people are turned off by the political process, it is really important to have all of our voices heard. Democracy works better when there are more voices participating. I would encourage all of the folks who are reading this interview to make sure they vote and get their friends out to vote because it's an important election. In this race, it is not one of those races where you wish you could tell the differences between the two candidates. There are stark differences between Gov. Quinn and State Sen. Bill Brady, and I think it's going to be an easy vote to cast.
See http://www.quinnforillinois.com.

Subject: Candidates; Political campaigns; Public officials; College professors; Leadership

Business indexing term: Subject: Leadership

People: Simon, Sheila

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Sheila Simon on her office and equality

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 26

Issue: 3

Pages: 15

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2010

Publication date: Oct 20, 2010

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 808378332

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sheila-simon-on-her-office-equality/docview/808378332/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 20, 2010

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Lesbian appointed Cook County judge

Author: Davis, Andrew

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lesbian-appointed-cook-county-judge/docview/808378323/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [Mary Trew], an out lesbian, told Windy City Times that Judge James Epstein, who is running unopposed for an appellate court seat, retired early to spend time with his children. Last month, Trew called the Illinois Supreme Court, and interviewed for a judicial position through state justice Anne Burke's committee. The committee recommended Trew to Burke.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=3&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=17&amp;date=2010-10-20&amp;atitle=Lesbian+appointed+Cook+County+judge&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=3&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=17&amp;date=2010-10-20&amp;atitle=Lesbian+appointed+Cook+County+judge&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Mary Trew - who, earlier this year, lost the Democratic primary race for Cook County judge, 9th Subcircuit - was appointed a judge for that same area Oct. 14.
Trew, an out lesbian, told Windy City Times that Judge James Epstein, who is running unopposed for an appellate court seat, retired early to spend time with his children. Last month, Trew called the Illinois Supreme Court, and interviewed for a judicial position through state justice Anne Burke's committee. The committee recommended Trew to Burke.
"I've been trying to do this [become a judge] for 13 years and, all of a sudden, it just popped," Trew said with a laugh.
The appointment means that Trew will have to leave her post as executive director of the Domestic Violence Legal Clinic. In an earlier interview with Windy City Times, she said that the clinic works to "represent victims of domestic violence who can't afford lawyers; we don't represent them in the criminal courts but in the domestic-relations courts."
Trew's swearing-in ceremony will take place Monday, Nov. 22, at 3 p.m. at 160 N. LaSaIIe, 18th floor, in the ceremonial courtroom. A reception will follow at Petterino's, 150 N. Dearborn.

Subject: Judges & magistrates; Political appointments; Gays & lesbians; Leadership

Business indexing term: Subject: Leadership

Location: Cook County Illinois; United States--US

People: Trew, Mary

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Lesbian appointed Cook County judge

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 26

Issue: 3

Pages: 17

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2010

Publication date: Oct 20, 2010

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 808378323

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lesbian-appointed-cook-county-judge/docview/808378323/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City M edia Group Oct 20, 2010

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Margaret Cho: Comic/actress is 'Cho Dependent'

Author: Peregrin, Tony

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/margaret-cho-comic-actress-is-dependent/docview/750913941/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [Margaret Cho]: It's Like, urn, it's Like my kind of approach to the Divine Miss M; if s very Cher. If s kind of Like Donna Summer, with some Patsy Cline thrown in - it's basicaLLy a Lot of fag hags roLLed into one! If s also great music too, and it's my approach to being a different kind of diva. I think it's exciting.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=48&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=14&amp;date=2010-09-01&amp;atitle=Margaret+Cho%3A+Comic%2Factress+is+%27Cho+Dependent%27&amp;au=Peregrin%2C+Tony&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=48&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=14&amp;date=2010-09-01&amp;atitle=Margaret+Cho%3A+Comic%2Factress+is+%27Cho+Dependent%27&amp;au=Peregrin%2C+Tony&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Margaret Cho is working some serious mojo these days with Cho Dependent, her new album and tour which take an unflinching and hilarious Look at sex, drugs, and rock and roLL, as onLy she can.
Phoning in from her home in Los AngeLes, Cho chats about gay-porn stars, country-murder balLads and her queerness.
Cho sounds just a hint softer on the phone, a LittLe more fragile, than she does on stage and screen, but she didn't hold back when discussing her inspiration for the new album and tour, proving that she is always and forever the one that we want.
Windy City Times: Your new album, Cho Dependent, has been described as a comedy/rock album. For all the queens out there scratching their heads going, what does that mean? Can you break it down?
Margaret Cho: It's Like, urn, it's Like my kind of approach to the Divine Miss M; if s very Cher. If s kind of Like Donna Summer, with some Patsy Cline thrown in - it's basicaLLy a Lot of fag hags roLLed into one! If s also great music too, and it's my approach to being a different kind of diva. I think it's exciting. It's music and funny music, and these are songs that I wrote with some of the greatest musicians out there, Like Ben Lee, Ani DiFranco, Fiona AppLe and Tegan and Sara.
WCT: How did you deride on the album title? Besides the fact that it is obviously bad-ass, did the title have a deeper meaning or significance to you other than the obvious pun?
MC: There are a Lot of themes on the album, Like addiction... to everything, addiction to drugs, specificaLLy, crystal meth. The song, "Intervention," which I recorded with Tegan and Sara, is about that. I think ifs reaLLy a pLague and that it is something that is as damaging as AIDS, as dead Ly, and destructive, and for some reason it is sfiLLvery prevaLent in the gay community, and it has caused quite a Lot of casualties. The titLe is about different kinds of addiction: "Calling in Stoned," is about calLing in sick, but reaLLy you are caLLing in stoned! The album is about addiction to people and to sex, aLL different kinds of addiction, actually, which is why I thought of the title "Cho Dependent."
WCT: I hear that there is a song on the new album about pom star Ricky Sinz, who lives here in Chicago (and has, like, a giant dong, or so I am told.) You posed with Ricky for Unzipped, making you the first (and last) woman ever to be photographed for the cover of the now defunct magazine.
MC: That was so much fun! Ricky is a shy, sweet, fabuLous guy. "You Dick" is a song aLL about his dick! It kind of bui'Lds off of my rap singLe "My Puss." Ifs a great song, classic, and hugely produced. I co-wrote it with a straight guy, CarL Newman from The New Pornographers. I presented it to [Ricky] at the gay porn awards [The GayVN Awards] Last year - I sang it to him.
WCT: Cho Dependent also features some darker moments, specifically the "I'm Sorry" track co-written by Andrew Bird. This "country murder ballad" is about the love you had for a man that was not reciprocated, right?
MC: Ifs a really bizarre story - I was in love with this guy that worked on ALL American GirL. Nothing happened, he didn't Like me back. The whoLe thing was so not right, but I reaLLy Loved him, and I had held on to that for aLL this time. But then, I turned 40 and I was sti'LL wondering what he was doing, and I GoogLed him. I never thought I'd find him, and if I did, I thought sureLy he wouLd be super-successfuL and married, with a bunch of kids and Living in a lighthouse or something.
Well, I found out that in 2007 he was convicted for murder. He bLudgeoned his wife to death, and they apparentLy found her partiaLLy mummified body in the attic. I was so horrified, on so many Levels. It couldn't have happened to me, but at the same time it couLd have been me. I feLt bad for this woman, I felt horribLe. I didn't know how to deaL with it, and I was writing with Andrew Bird at the time, and so I wrote the song and he composed wonderful music for it. We did the demo for it in his studio on his farm in Illinois, as a matter of fact.
When something horribLe happens, I often think about deaLing with it with a dark kind of humor. My favorite singers often sing about domestic violence - singers Like BiLLy Holiday and Tammy Wynette often sang about the domestic abuse that they endured. I wanted to do my version ofthat kind of song, too. It is a traditional murder country ballad. Ifs my contribution to that genre.
WCT: Earlier, you mentioned recording a track with Tegan and Sara. What was it like working with them?
MC: They are wonderful. I Loved doing the song with them. We recorded in Vancouver, when I had just come home from a trip to Fez, Morocco and I was in Vancouver and I had some kind of intestinal parasite and head Lice, and I was reaLLy sick and reaLLy itchy. And I was Like 'hi, do you want to catch my Lice?' and they were reaLLy good sports about it, they are a great band. I Love their sound.
To me, "Intervention" is very funny, but quite poignant, too. As I said, ifs about confronting drug abuse. I can't imagine anything worse, or as great, as an intervention, because you are surrounded by aLL these peopLe that Love you, and at the same time you are being confronted at a moment when you are at your most fragile.
WCT: People love to make assumptions, and I was wondering if you want to let readers know how you define your sexuality - if you bother to define it in the first place, that is. Do you consider yourself queer, straight, bisexual?
MC: I am definitely queer - to me, that is a very naturaL response. I wouldn't say I'm bisexual because I reaLLy value my connection with transgender peopLe, and I don't where they wouldn't fit in the bisexuaL spectrum. There is more variety than that in the world, more than two genders. I am definitely queer.
WCT: I've heard that your act is still primarily comedy, with some music sprinkled in for good measure. Can you talk a little more about what fans can expect from your show?
MC: Oh, primarily the show wiLL be comedy and I am dying to do it. I have been working nonstop on "Drop Dead Diva" for the Last six months, and I am dying to get out there and do it. There will be a few songs in the show, but no matter what I do creatively, I am a stand-up comedian. It aLL comes back to that. That is who I am. I think I'm gonna taLk a Lot about race and famiLy and what it is Like to Live in the South because ifs such a big change for me, so they'll be some of that too.
WCT: The second season of Drop Dead Diva recently started airing. Have you found that working on TV is different/better/more bizarre than when you were filming All American Girl?
MC: Ifs a wonderful show. I reaLLy Love it, and I am a fan of it as weLL. Drop Dead Diva is a different kind of show [compared to ALL American GirL], because it's not a sitcom. You are basicaLLy making a movie in a week's time, so ifs a Lot more involved. I'm not in every scene, so ifs pretty simple for me, in that I don't have to carry it. I just come in and be funny - and that is what I reaLLy enjoy about it.
WCT: Speaking of TV, I did not know you had a role on the Ghost Whisperer! What a hoot. And in somewhat related news, I hear you have a Ouija-board collection.
MC: I just took over one episode. I played a character whose fiancé has died and we were communicating with the dead which is really cool. I Loved it and I got to be aLL dramatic and I was crying - it was great!
I do have a Ouija-board coLlection - but they are missing the pLanchettes! I take the pLanchettes and toss them out because my house is oLd and kind of spooky, and haunted, at Least it seems Like it is.
WCT: Margaret, let's close this out with one of those Vanity Fair, Proustian questions: What is your personal motto?
MC: My motto, I guess [pauses], I guess it wouLd be something Steve Martin once said: "Just be so good that they can never teLL you no." I try to do this as much as I can, because I never want to be denied the opportunity to do more.
Cho Dependent is now on sale. In addition, Margaret Cho will be performing at the Chicago Theater Oct. 16. Visit www.margaretcho. com for tour date information.

Subject: Singers; Comedians; Musical recordings; Gays & lesbians; Pornography & obscenity

People: Cho, Margaret

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Margaret Cho: Comic/actress is 'Cho Dependent'

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 25

Issue: 48

Pages: 14

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2010

Publication date: Sep 1, 2010

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 750913941

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/margaret-cho-comic-actress-is-dependent/docview/750913941/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Sep 1, 2010

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Carousel

Author: Chaitman, Steven

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/carousel/docview/748808911/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: In fact, Julie's best friend, Carrie (Elizabeth Lanza), has more songs and considering she's in a much more pLeasant, abuse-free relationship, the musicaL is almost more LikabLe when she's being featured. It also helps that her husbandto-be, the red-cheeked fisherman Mr. Enoch Snow (George Keating) is the closest thing the show has to comic relief other than the second act opener "A Real Nice Clambake," which wasn't necessarily supposed to be funny.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=46&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=12&amp;date=2010-08-18&amp;atitle=Carousel&amp;au=Chaitman%2C+Steven&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=46&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=12&amp;date=2010-08-18&amp;atitle=Carousel&amp;au=Chaitman%2C+Steven&amp;id=doi:

Full text: THEATER REVIEW
Carousel
Music by Richard Rodgers
Book and Lyrics by Oscar Hamerstein II
At: Light Opera Works at Cahn Auditorium, 600 Emerson, Evanston
Phone: 847-869-6300 ; $32-92 (ages 21 and younger, half price)
Runs through: Aug. 29
BY STEVEN CHAITMAN
Legendary U.S. songwriters Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II regard Carousel as their favorite collaboration. It was only their second, after Oklahoma! changed the face of American theatre forever just two years before. In 1945, Carousel became the first musical tragedy and consequentLy the show is considered the duo's most operatic work.
This is good for more traditionalist theatergoers, but those who prefer the more comedie, catchier and family-friendly Rodgers and Hammerstein repertoire will quickly realize there's a lot to like but only so much to love about Carousel, a drama full of socioeconomic issues that lead to some questionale ideas about domestic abuse. And honestly, that's the only thing working against Light Opera Works' taLent-Loaded production.
From the very first curtain revealing the carouseL and the silent proLogue set to the music of the "The CarouseL Waltz," the high-end production vaLues are abundantLy dear. The costumes are vibrant, the set though rigid is detailed and the lighting is spectacular. In fact, Andrew Meyers' lighting design is hands down the best aspect of the production. The beautiful sunsets on the cyclorama and the smoky teal of the show's dark climactic scene have a tremendous impact on the mood of the show.
After the excellentLy choreographed prologue, the cast steps up and proves why the money used to dress the production was warranted. Not a single bad - or even average - voice can be picked out. Leads Cooper David Grodin (BiLLy Bigelow) and NataLie Ford (Julie Jordan) fit the operatic styLe of the music wonderfuLLy. If anything negative, the casting was a bit more focused on vocaL quality than on physicaLity.
Director and choreographer Stacey FLaster does just basic bLocking for the intimate numbers such as the gorgeous harp-filled classic "If I Loved You" and the endearing "When the Children Are Asleep." This rightfully keeps the focus on the music, but also reminds us of Carousel's tendency to drag at times and drift away from the centraL and tension-ridden Love story. Sometimes it feels Like Billy and JuLie aren't the most important characters in the show.
In fact, Julie's best friend, Carrie (Elizabeth Lanza), has more songs and considering she's in a much more pLeasant, abuse-free relationship, the musicaL is almost more LikabLe when she's being featured. It also helps that her husbandto-be, the red-cheeked fisherman Mr. Enoch Snow (George Keating) is the closest thing the show has to comic relief other than the second act opener "A Real Nice Clambake," which wasn't necessarily supposed to be funny.
But in spite of Carousel's flaws, Light Opera's production finds moments of great strength be it the Lighting or Fiasteis stunningLy choreographed "Louise's BaLLet," which acts as the saving grace of the final four scenes.
There's no denying Carousel's status as a classic; there are some beautiful musicaL moments in a truLy American story about dreaming big, making love work, being ashamed of financial failure and hoping that children grow up to surpass the mistakes of their parents. Light Opera honors that about as weLL as any company couLd by casting top-notch singers and optimizing aLL the technicaL elements. For musical-theater traditionalists and those Looking to cross this show off their Rodgers and Hammerstein Lists, Light Opera Works' production wiLL be hard to beat.

Subject: Musical theater

Location: Evanston Illinois; United States--US

People: Flaster, Stacey; Rodgers, Richard

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Carousel

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 25

Issue: 46

Pages: 12

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2010

Publication date: Aug 18, 2010

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Theater Review

ProQuest document ID: 748808911

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/carousel/docview/748808911/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Aug 18, 2010

Last updated: 2023-08-28

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Reefer Madness: The Musical

Author: Morgan, Scott C

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/reefer-madness-musical/docview/747128710/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: The film was just 67 minutes, yet composer [Dan Studney] and lyricist [Kevin Murphy]'s musical adaptation fills out to a flabby two hours. It's about a half hour too long since Studney and Murphy's material is stuffed with caricatures instead of real characters you actually give a damn about. It also isn't nearly as clever as it should be (we don't really need yet another Jesus Christ visitation production number).

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=44&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=14&amp;date=2010-08-04&amp;atitle=Reefer+Madness%3A+The+Musical&amp;au=Morgan%2C+Scott+C&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=44&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=14&amp;date=2010-08-04&amp;atitle=Reefer+Madness%3A+The+Musical&amp;au=Morgan%2C+Scott+C&amp;id=doi:

Full text: THEATER REVIEW
Reefer Madness: The Musical
Book and score: Kevin Murphy and Dan Studney
At: ensemble 113 at Athenaeum Studio 3, 2936 N. South port
Phone: 800-982-2787; $10-$15
Runs through: Aug. 7
Very few off-Broadway musicals get made into full-length movies, let alone flop ones that ran less than a month. But thafs what happened with Reefer Madness: The Musical. The Showtime cable network filmed this 2001 show in 2005 as a companion piece for the launch of the pot comedy Weeds.
Reefer Madness is an adaptation of the 1936 cult film of the same name. It showed such outrageous outcomes of marijuana use that it has become a camp classic.
The film was just 67 minutes, yet composer Dan Studney and lyricist Kevin Murphy's musical adaptation fills out to a flabby two hours. It's about a half hour too long since Studney and Murphy's material is stuffed with caricatures instead of real characters you actually give a damn about. It also isn't nearly as clever as it should be (we don't really need yet another Jesus Christ visitation production number).
The weaknesses of Reefer Madness become more apparent when the ensemble performing it can't get the right campy tone to mock this tale of sunny American youths getting hooked on pot. The pert and pretty performers of ensemble 113 - under director Corey Lubowich and choreographer Rachel Freidman - do their darnedest to make the musical funny, but their inexperience shows.
This is very apparent in the casting of the corruptible pot fiends. Joseph Boersma as pusher Jack Stone, Kim Grossman as addict Mae and Elyse Ranchen as reckless mother Sally each lack the film noir tone to make their dialogue crackle with self-aware ironic humor.
Their comic timing is also way off. Boersma's scenes of domestic abuse on Mae should be cartoonish to prompt audience laughter - not the gasps of horror like on opening night.
As the wholesome high school sweethearts Jimmy Harper and Mary Lane, Will Aaron and Amy Stricker respectively do much better at creating the laughable wide-eyed naivety of their characters. Clayton Fox also has loads of fun as the Lecturer who warns the parents (but also seems to revel in playing other characters ranging from a randy satyr to a preachy FDR).
But the whole cast could ratchet up their performances with a more arch awareness of how simple the motivations are for their paltry roles. And the scene changes could be speedier (even if the tatty couch and booze bottle-filled table fit cozily in set designer Michael Bou-Maroun's platform set).
Yet these qualms with Reefer Madness and ensemble 113's so-so production of it probably won't matter much to the recreational user demographic, since it cooks up plenty of jokes to suit them. But fans of well-written musical theater will probably wish they were watching a better off-Broadway movie-musical adaptation like Little Shop of Horrors instead.

Subject: Musical theater

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Studney, Dan; Lubowich, Corey; Boersma, Joseph

Company / organization: Name: ensemble 113; NAICS: 711110

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Reefer Madness: The Musical

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 25

Issue: 44

Pages: 14

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2010

Publication date: Aug 4, 2010

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Theater Review-Mixed

ProQuest document ID: 747128710

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/reefer-madness-musical/docview/747128710/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Aug 4, 2010

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Confab looks at queers and sex offenders

Author: Nair, Yasmin

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/confab-looks-at-queers-sex-offenders/docview/497085446/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: One major problem with the punishment of RSOs is that the laws are made so that "one size fits all," instead of being calibrated to reflect the severity of the crime. For that reason, someone who looks at child pornography may be punished exactly like someone who rapes a child. According to [Richard Wright], these laws are not only burdensome on RSOs but also extremely expensive because state and local agencies have to funnel valuable time and energy into constant monitoring of sex offenders.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=35&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2010-06-02&amp;atitle=Confab+looks+at+queers+and+sex+offenders&amp;au=Nair%2C+Yasmin&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=35&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2010-06-02&amp;atitle=Confab+looks+at+queers+and+sex+offenders&amp;au=Nair%2C+Yasmin&amp;id=doi:

Full text: "Whafs queer about sex offenders? Are sex offenders the new queers?" That was the provocative title of an all-day conference on sex-offender laws, hosted by the University of Chicago and the Center on Halsted and held at the Center May 27. Speakers included literary theorists, activists, artists, legal scholars and political scientists.
Richard Wright, assistant professor of criminal justice at Bridgewater State College and the editor of the recent book Sex Offender Laws: Failed Policies, New Direction, provided a broad overview of the shifts in sex-offender laws and their effects on the rights of registered sex offenders (RSOs), and argued that the laws had gone too far and needed reform. Over the last many decades, laws punishing and registering sex offenders have so increased in severity that several legal critics now consider them draconian. In early May, federal judge Jack B. Weinstein of the United States District Court in Brooklyn ruled that the electronic monitoring of Peter Po lo ui zzi, a man awaiting retrial on child pornography, was unconstitutional, saying that it violated his procedural due process rights. Currently, depending on the city and state, an RSO may be barred from living in federal housing and may find it impossible to get a job. Many RSOs slide into lives of poverty and despair as basics like housing are put out of their reach.
One major problem with the punishment of RSOs is that the laws are made so that "one size fits all," instead of being calibrated to reflect the severity of the crime. For that reason, someone who looks at child pornography may be punished exactly like someone who rapes a child. According to Wright, these laws are not only burdensome on RSOs but also extremely expensive because state and local agencies have to funnel valuable time and energy into constant monitoring of sex offenders. In addition, he said, "there is no definite empirical evidence that exclusionary zones reduce sex offender recidivism" and, in fact, by banishing RSOs to a few areas, the laws aid "the development of high-risk sex offender enclaves."
But what does any of this have to do with queers? Don Kulick, professor of anthropology at the University of Chicago and a conference organizer, said that until recently, "homosexuality was a sex offense, homosexuals were sex offenders." Joe Fischel, a Ph.D. candidate in political science at the University of Chicago and event organizer, pointed out a historical concurrence: the relatively high level of acceptance and even protection of LGBTs in the past 15 years has coincided with a rise in the punishment and monitoring of RSOs. As he put it, "the sex offender takes up the space now vacated by the homosexual."
Speakers also pointed out that children's sexuality has been erased from culture. Yet, the figure of the queer child and his/her relationship to older cultural and/or sexual mentors has long been a mainstay of queer culture and literature. Kathleen Stockton, professor of English at the University of Utah and author of The Queer Child, looked at key moments in fiction like Raddyffe Hall's The Well of Loneliness, where children possessed a degree of agency and response to their sexuality.
Laurie Jo Reynolds - artist, activist and adjunct professor at the Film and Video Department at Columbia College - holds a 2010 Soros Justice Project Fellowship; her current work considers the impact of sex-offender statutes in Illinois. She presented a series of staged photographs that provided a visual counterpoint to the traditional banishment of RSOs. In one, an RSO is shown returning from prison to the welcoming arms of family and friends. Reynolds said that the point was to ask what would it mean for an RSO to be meaningfully reintegrated back into their community. She noted that activists had to work with the "dead silence" around laws from both RSOs and their families and what we might presume to be their "natural allies" on the left.
A session with Fischel and Rose Corrigan, assistant professor of law and politics at Drexel University, indicated some tension as the two differed on the ways in which sex-offender laws have been unsuccessful. While Fischel felt that punishment and registries were overly punitive, Corrigan, who has worked with survivors of sexual and domestic violence, stated that not enough was done to provide support for victims of rape and abuse. She also posed a question: "Why do prosecutors who hate rape cases [in that they don't prosecute them enough] love sex offender cases?" Her answer was that "getting people on the sex-offender registries was an easy way to show they are 'tough on crime' without doing a lot of work."
During question-and-answer sessions, RSOs and their families spoke up and addressed their frustrations at the laws. Craig A., who did not give his last name for reasons of privacy, stated that he had been found guilty of possession of child pornography in Downers Grove in 2006. He was a journalist and a competing newspaper publicized his arrest. According to him, "all the aldermen were suddenly confronted with the fact that a newspaper reporter, who looks 'just like me' is also a sex offender." Craig's point was that there could be no stereotypes of the "typical" sex offender. He added, "we need to be out and loud."
Craig A. told Windy City Times that he liked the conference, saying that "it was freeing to be able to get up in a group of strangers and admit what I've done, and not be condemned for it. This was the first time [I found] acceptance and support [among strangers]." Stuart Michaels, undergraduate program chair at the University of Chicago's Center for Gender Studies and an organizer, spoke added, "This tells me that we have to look at some intersectional and difficult questions. It's quite historic to have in the same room sex offenders, academics, activists and artists talking about these issues." The conference ended with a session about the 2007 film Zoo, about zoophiles, which included a conversation with the director Robinson Devor.

Subject: Sex offenders; Gays & lesbians; Conferences; Legislation

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Confab looks at queers and sex offenders

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 25

Issue: 35

Pages: 8

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2010

Publication date: Jun 2, 2010

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 497085446

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/confab-looks-at-queers-sex-offenders/docview/497085446/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jun 2, 2010

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Jose Rios: Police LGBT liaison, and loving it

Author: Leventhal, Micki

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jose-rios-police-lgbt-liaison-loving/docview/499733416/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: I'm the gay officer friendly," laughed [Jose Rios]. "And the department has been very supportive. My commanders have been fantastic. If I need to go to another district, they have no problem. They say, 'go, do what you need to do. You're a Chicago Police Officer and you're the liaison to the LGBT community.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=34&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2010-05-26&amp;atitle=Jose+Rios%3A+Police+LGBT+liaison%2C+and+loving+it&amp;au=Leventhal%2C+Micki&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=34&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2010-05-26&amp;atitle=Jose+Rios%3A+Police+LGBT+liaison%2C+and+loving+it&amp;au=Leventhal%2C+Micki&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Chicago Police Officer Jose Rios was not the department's first LGBT liaison. However, he does seem to have been born for the job he's loved for the past decade. "I've always known I was gay," he said. "I didn't know what the word was, we didn't have a word for it, but I always knew I was different. For me it's always been who I am." And, he grew up across from Wrigley Field, in the heart of Boystown.
Rios has served as the vice president of LGPA/ Goal-Chicago (The Lesbian and Gay Police Association /Gay Officers Action League of Chicago) since its reorganization in 2005 and is on the organizing committee for the 14th Annual International LGBT Conference for Law Enforcement and Criminal Justice Professionals taking place in Chicago June 22-27. He's doing outreach for the conference: connecting the conference with police department, the citizens' LGBT subcommittee and businesses, obtaining sponsorships for social events and working sessions and selling ads in the program booklet.
Following high school graduation from Quigley Seminary North, Rios started college and then entered Niles Seminary of Loyola University with the intention of becoming a priest. After about 18 months he had second thoughts. "I started having a crisis of faith. Well, I have a very strong faith, but I don't always believe in the institution," he explained.
He decided to "work for a while" and joined American Airlines as flight attendant. "I worked there from the age of 22 until 30," he said. "The traveling was a lot of fun but my brother was a policeman and I wanted to be like him. He's always been my role model." Rios entered the police academy in March 1998.
After his six months training, he was assigned to the Boystown 23rd district, working regular squad patrol on the midnight shift for three years. In 2001 he was reassigned to afternoons and his commander, Richard Guerrero, offered him the position of LGBT liaison. "Back then it was just the 'L' and 'G' - there was no BT yet," Rios laughed.
The role of gay liaison in the 23rd District had been established by Commander Joseph DeLopez "sometime in the latter 1990s, around 13 or 14 years ago, it was before I came on the force," said Rios. "It was a way for him to better communicate with the large gay population that the district served."
Rios' position reports through the Community Policing Office (CPO), a division that's established in each of the city's 25 police districts. "The officers who work in the CPO do thing from working with seniors, domestic violence, court advocacy, businesses, youth and here we have the LGBT liaison."
In 2006 Rios went back to school and in 2008 earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in Criminal Justice from Calumet College in St. Joseph, Ind. In addition to enhancing his job skills, the degree will allow him to sit for promotional exams for the rank of lieutenant.
Rios is the only official LGBT liaison in the city and though he's assigned to the 23rd, he gets calls for help from LGBT people from all over the Chicago. "A lot of my job is not only doing police work it's doing community outreach," said Rios, who recently assisted a Latino man whose family had gotten violent when he came out to them. "I told him who to contact, what kind of agencies have what kind of programs that would be beneficial for him. Recently I worked with the Youth Pride Center (YPC) in Hyde Park. I spoke at a scholarship breakfast to let the kids know I'm here for them - if they have problems they can contact me. I also speak to college classes."
Each semester, Rios visits with Victoria Shannon's Gay and Lesbian Studies Part I class at Columbia College to discuss his job and CPD's efforts to train officers to better work with the community.
"My students adore him. He's personable, reassuring and he always gives each one of them his business card," said Shannon. "Many of my students have had bad experiences with Chicago police officers, but after they meet Jose, they usually say, 'Well, there's one good Cop in Chicago at least.' Hearing him speak, they understand his side of the job and they learn how important it is that Jose has the job he has. He always encourages my students to become Chicago police officers."
"I'm the gay officer friendly," laughed Rios. "And the department has been very supportive. My commanders have been fantastic. If I need to go to another district, they have no problem. They say, 'go, do what you need to do. You're a Chicago Police Officer and you're the liaison to the LGBT community. You're assigned here, but your community is everywhere.' My commanders, all my supervisors, from my sergeants to the lieutenants that I've had in community policing, have all been great. I've been lucky."
Find out much more about Jose Rios-including why he prefers working where he does - online at www.WindyCityMediaGroup. com.
LGPA/GOAL-Chicago will host 14th Annual International LGBT Conference for Law Enforcement and Criminal Justice Professionals June 22-27. During the conference they will bestow the "Bridge to Unity" award on actress Sharon Gless, star of Hannah Free. For more information see www.goalchicago. info/2010.

Subject: Police; Gays & lesbians; Personality traits; Professional responsibilities

Business indexing term: Subject: Professional responsibilities

People: Rios, Jose

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Jose Rios: Police LGBT liaison, and loving it

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 25

Issue: 34

Pages: 11

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2010

Publication date: May 26, 2010

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 499733416

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jose-rios-police-lgbt-liaison-loving/docview/499733416/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 26, 2010

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

calendar

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calendar/docview/365629392/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Dining Out For Equality Equality Illinois will host its inaugural Dining Out For Equality event at restaurants across the city to help raise funds needed for the fight to win equal rights for LGBT people in Illinois. Participating restaurants include Big Jones, Crew Bar & Grill, Francesca's Bryn Mawr, [N.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=32&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=20&amp;date=2010-05-12&amp;atitle=calendar&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=32&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=20&amp;date=2010-05-12&amp;atitle=calendar&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Wed., May 12
Four Women Showcase New musical series focusing on female singer/songwriters in, around and touring thru Chicago. Each Wednesday, "Four" female performers will showcase their talents in a show. For one month, the same four performers will be featured, but will rotate and change their sets. This month Liz Snavely, AKA LVNMUZIQ, Diva Kai, Jess Godwin and this only Donna Frost. 7pm, Mary's Attic, 5400 N Clark, www.labryschicago.com/4_women_only.htm
Share-A-Story Month Reading Gerber/Hart celebrates Share-A-Story Month with writers reading selections from their favorite stories. Participating writers include Edward Thomas-Herrera, Darwyn Jones, Dana Kay Litoff, Goldie Goldbloom, Gregg Shapiro, and Robert Klein Engler. 7pm, 773-381-8030, Gerber/Hart Library, www. gerberhart.org
Latino HIV confab "Informate: Breaking the Silence - HIV Update on the Latino Community," is a one-day event that will explore how HIV/AIDS is affecting the Latino community. 8:30pm, Garfield Park Conservatory, 300 N. Central Park; www. aidschicago.org
Hydrag with Hostess Tajma Hall Hostess Tajma Hall will keep you laughing all night long as she shares the stage with countless stars; 10pm, Hydrate, 3458 N. Halsted, www.hydratechicago.com
Thursday, May 13
Windy City Gay Idol 2010 Now in its 8th year, Idol searches for the best amateur gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered (GLBT) singers in the Chicago area. 7pm sign up, 8pm start. WCMGpromotions@ gmail.com; 7pm, Sofo, 4923 N Clark
50 Faggots Launch Party at Hydrate Join the full cast of "50 Faggots" at our launch party celebrating this amazing documentary series. Hosted by Cyon Flare with special guest co-host, Acid Betty. Music by DJ Phil DaBeatz. 10pm, (773) 975-9244, Hydrate, 3458 N. Halsted, www.50faggots. com
SWEET TEA Black Gay Men of the South Tonight writer/performer E. Patrick Johnson will join in a discussion with co-producers Jane M. Saks (Executive Director, Ellen Stone Belie Institute for the Study of Women and Gender in the Arts and Media)and Bonnie Metzgar (Artistic Director, About Face Theatre). Show runs through May 29; 11:15pm, Viaduct Theatre, 3111 N. Western Avenue., www.aboutfacetheatre.com
Friday, May 14
50 Faggots Documentary Series Premiere Join us for the premiere of this new, online documentary series educating, exploring and celebrating how individual effeminate gay men survive and thrive in today's American queer communities, including Chicago locals Cyon Flare, Jade, Darrell Jones, Roger Goodman and Marc Felion & Fausto Fernes from the "Feast of Fun" podcast. $7 in advance/ $10 at door. Doors open at 6:30 p.m., premiere at 7 p.m., reception at 8:45 p.m. See www.50faggots.com or call The Center on Halsted at 773-472-6469 to make advance ticket purchases.
TPAN's Positively Aware Taking place the 2nd Friday of each month at Hydrate Nightclub; each person who makes a minimum $5 donation to Test Positive Aware Network at the door will receive open bar! 7:15pm, Hydrate, 3458 N. Halsted, www. tpan.com
Out at the Opera with Chicago Opera Theater's Three Decembers For $100 you'll receive an A+ ticket to Three Decembers, plus admission to the VIP After-Party. Frederica von Stade makes her last Chicago appearances in the story of a Broadway actress who reveals a shocking secret of their family's past to her two adult children. USE CODE 6816 and link to www. chicagooperatheater.org/events/VIPLGBT. html; 9:15 p.m., Chicago Opera Theater, 70 E. Lake
Scarlet First Ward Ball Featuring DJ dolo Non-Halsted DJ dolo brings his great mash ups and dance tunes to Scarlet's First Ward Ball parties. 10pm, Scarlet, 3320 N Halsted, www.scarletbarchicago.com
Saturday, May 15
Partner Abuse in LGBTQ Relationships Workshop Developing a Common Language: Howard Brown Health Center's Violence Recovery Project, Broadway Youth Center, & Lesbian Community Care Project will host a four-hour workshop for survivors of intimate partner violence or unfair relationships and partner abuse in lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer relationships. This is a FREE event and lunch will be provided. Call 773-388-8882 or see www.howardbrown.org.
Chicago Dragons Bachelor Auction Join the men of the Chicago Dragons Rugby Club for their 2010 Bachelor Auction and Fundraiser. $20 in advance, $25 at the door. 5pm, Sidetrack, 3349 N. Halsted, www.chicagodragons.org
Garden of Eve fundraiser benefiting LCCP and women's services, a merger of "A Taste for Every Palate" and LCCPs Coming Out Against Cancer. Last year's event, the first Garden of Eve, was attended by 500 women. Host committee: Tamara Allen, Kat Fitzgerald, Dalila Fridi, and Melissa Mansfield; 6 p.m., 773-388-1600, Christy Webber Landscapes' HQ: Rancho Verde, 2900 W. Ferdinand, www.lccp.org/join.php
Alt Q, 10th anniversary "Best in Show" ALT Q (formerly Queer Is Folk Festival) is celebrating its 10th year as a showcase for LGBT musicians and performers at the Old Town School of Folk Music This year's performers include Coyote Grace, Wishing Chair, Heat Birds, Namoli Brennet, Actor Slash Model and Scott Free. 7 p.m., 312-218-8123, Old Town School of Folk Music, 4544 N. Lincoln,www.altqfestivaL com; e-mail altqfestival@gmail.com
Chicago Red Stars play Philadelphia Independence. $15. 7:15pm, 866-WPS-2009, Toyota Park, 7000 S. Harlem, Bridgeview., www.chicagoredstars.com
ILGRA Rodeo Benefit & Show Enjoy a night of fun and laughs as the Illinois Gay Rodeo Association raises money for the 2010 Windy City Rodeo. Special Guest Star will be Michigan International Gay Rodeo Association Mr. Mike Shannon. This event will be hosted by Miss Colleen Stewart Miss Illinois Gay Rodeo 2010. 9pm, Club Krave, 13126 S Western, www.ilgra.com
Sunday, May 16
Beatrice Arthur Tribute Beatrice Arthur was the larger-than-life actress who delighted Broadway audiences and television audiences. Fellow silver-haired cabaret chanteuse, Chicago-based Carla Gordon along with musical director, Beckie Menzie will be performing the salute. 2 p.m., Skokie Theater, 7924 Lincoln, Skokie
Lucille Ball - Thanks for Asking A celebration of the first lady of television, An Evening with Lucilie Ball: 'Thank You for Asking," is a touching, funny and uplifting one-woman play performed by actress and renowned impressionist, Suzanne LaRusch, and written by Suzanne LaRusch & Lude Arnaz. 6 p.m.; 219-473-6060, The Venue at Horseshoe Casino, 777 Casino Center; www.horseshoehammond.com
I Am Sexy Sundays Chicago's Hottest/Sexiest LGBT Night. I Am Sexy Sundays is the biggest club the gay commuinity has ever seen! Free entry; 9pm, 312 262 8761, Vain Night Club 2354 N. Clybourn
Monday, May 17
Harvey Milk Week of Action The International Day Against Homophobia, May 17, kicks off a week of local actions that ends on May 22, what would have been Harvey Milk's 80th Birthday, www.chicagomilkweek.wordpress.com
Fish Out of Water screening and discussion Join LGBT Change and All Saints Episcopal Church for International Day Against Homophobia and a free screening of Ky Dickens' eye-opening film FISH OUT OF WATER, a spirited documentary exploring the seven Bible passages notoriously used to condemn homosexuality and justify marriage discrimination. 7pm, All Saints Episcopal Church, 4550 N. Hermitage, www.fishoutofwaterfilm.com
Comedy Cabaret at 3160 Come and celebrate the one month anniversary of the Comedy Cabaret, Chicago's biggest comedy secret! Sign up at 8:30pm/performance at 9pm. 8:30pm, 3160, 3160 N. Clark Street
Tuesday, May 18
Windy City Gay Idol 2010 at North End Now in its 8th year, Idol searches for the best amateur gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered (GLBT) singers in the Chicago area. 8pm signup, 9pm start. WCMGpromotions@gmaiLcom. Venue is North End, 3733 N. Halsted
Stud Puppy Tuesdays Temptations Night Club features Stud Puppy Tuesdays - Every Tuesday, male dancers, hot drink specials and even hotter guys. 7 p.m., 847-455-0008, Temptations Nightclub, 10235 W Grand Ave, http://temptationsnightclub.net
Wed., May 19
Dining Out For Equality Equality Illinois will host its inaugural Dining Out For Equality event at restaurants across the city to help raise funds needed for the fight to win equal rights for LGBT people in Illinois. Participating restaurants include Big Jones, Crew Bar & Grill, Francesca's Bryn Mawr, Halsted's, Hamburger Mary's, Hearty Restaurant, In Fine Spirits, Kit Kat Lounge, Las Mañanitas, Minibar Ultra Lounge and Café, Nookies Tree, Wilde, and Yoshi's Café. 5pm, Minibar Ultra Lounge and Cafe, 3341 N Halsted, To Be Determined, www. diningoutforequality.com
Love in the Age of Grindr A forum on intimacy and connectivity, in an era of rapidly advancing technologies that are changing the ways gay and bisexual men relate. RSVP www.lifelube.org; 6pm, Rehab Lounge, 3641 N Halsted, http://www. Bfelube.org
Honoring Lorraine Hansberry Gerber/Hart Library honors Lorraine Hansberry on what would have been her 80th birthday. Writers read from her work and discuss her influence on their own literary development. Writers are Carmen Ábrego, CC. Carter, Nikki Pattin, and Avery R. Young. 7:30pm, 773-381-8030, Gerber/Hart Library, http://www.gerberhart.org
Thursday, May 20
The Future of HIV Research & Sexual Health Rush University Medical Center and the Center on Halsted will present a discussion on the future of HIV research, sexual health and related topics featuring world-class experts Beverly Sha, MD, and Kimberly Smith, MD, MPH. Program is FREE and open to the public. 5:30pm, 312-942-1964, Center on Halsted, 3656 N. Halsted, http://www.centeronhabted.org
I Ain't Crazy!- Gay Black Men, Mental Health, Spirituality and HIV Panelists will address why Black gay men do (or don't) access mental health services and the impact on our behavior and life choices. 6 p.m., 312-566-0285, ext. 12, Charles A. Hayes Family Investment Center, 4859 S. Wabash, www.lovethybrotha.com
Saturday, May 22
Human First 2010, Gala Performance benefiting Center on Halsted Starring Lily Tomlin and featuring Oleta Adams. Honorary Chairman Mayor Richard M. Daley, Chair of the Honorary Committee Patrick Sheahan, Gala Co-Chairs Robert Kohl, Gail Morse & Lauren Verdich, and Dori Wilson. 7:30pm, 773-472-6469, Harris Theater for Music and Dance, 205 E Randolph Dr, http://www.centeronhabted.org
Sidebar YOU' VE GOT MALE
Saturday, May 15
Members of the local LGBT rugby team the Chicago Dragons will be up for sale at Sidetrack, 3349 N. Halsted.
YOU GOTTA BE A
Sunday, May 16
A tribute to actress/singer Bea Arthur will take place at Skokie Theater.
Sidebar 'SWEET' SURRENDER
Through Sat., May 29
Sweet Tea: Black Gay Men of the South - written by E. Patrick Johnson (above) - is at the Viaduct Theatre, 3111 N. Western.
Sidebar Get calendar online
Q: WindyCityMediaGroup.com
ChicagoPride.com

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: calendar

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 25

Issue: 32

Pages: 20

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2010

Publication date: May 12, 2010

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 365629392

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calendar/docview/365629392/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 12, 2010

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

DADT enforcement changes announced

Author: Colbert, Chuck

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dadt-enforcement-changes-announced/docview/432808816/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: United States Defense Secretary Robert Gates announced changes in the Pentagon's "Don't Ask, Don't TeLL" (DADT) poLicy March 25- modifications to the poLicy, he said, "that are consistent with the existing" Law, but nonetheLess wouLd ease the enforcement of it, according to generaL standards of "common sense" and "common decency."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=26&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2010-03-31&amp;atitle=DADT+enforcement+changes+announced&amp;au=Colbert%2C+Chuck&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=26&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2010-03-31&amp;atitle=DADT+enforcement+changes+announced&amp;au=Colbert%2C+Chuck&amp;id=doi:

Full text: United States Defense Secretary Robert Gates announced changes in the Pentagon's "Don't Ask, Don't TeLL" (DADT) poLicy March 25- modifications to the poLicy, he said, "that are consistent with the existing" Law, but nonetheLess wouLd ease the enforcement of it, according to generaL standards of "common sense" and "common decency."
News of the regulatory changes came in a press conference where Gates, with Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff AdmiraL Mike MuLLen aLongside, outLined new guideLines designed to reduce the number of gay discharges. Altogether, there are three specific changes.
First, no Longer wiLL "hearsay," "overheard statements," and priviLeged/confidentiaL information be abLe to trigger a fact-finding investigation.
Second, only a flag officer - admiraL or generaL - may "initiate a fact-finding inquiry or separation proceedings regarding homosexuaL conduct."
Third, the Pentagon regulations wiLL "revise what constitutes a reLiable person," Gates said, adding, "The changes announced today go into effect immediateLy" and appLy to "aLL open and future cases." The services have 30 days to "conform their reguLations."
ShortLy after the press conference, officials from gay-rights organizations and DADT-repeal activists immediately praised the new poLicy directives. At same time, however, they advocated fuLL repeal of the Law.
"The regulatory changes announced today are another major step forward in making the 1993 ban Less draconian," said Aubrey Sarvis, executive director of the Servicemembers LegaL Defense Network, which seeks to provide information and assistance to service members threatened or ejected by the poLicy.
"These changes underscore what Sec. Gates said [Last month] and again today: The repeal of 'don't ask, don't teLL' is inevitable."
Sarvis also voiced praise specificaLLy for the zone of privacy provision, which requires priviLeged personaL information to be kept confidential. "We are especiaLLy pLeased that the undue burden gay and Lesbian troops carry around with them every day has been Lessened. At Least a gay service member can divulge his or her sexuaLity to a physician or therapist without fear of getting fired. Service members can also report domestic abuse without the fear of being discharged."
At the press conference Gates detailed that provision at some Length. "Certain categories of information wiLL no Longer be used in support of discharges," he said, including "information provided to Lawyers, clergy, and psychotherapists and information provided to medicaL professionals in the furtherance of treatment by pubLic heaLth officials in the course of pubLic heaLth" poLicy. Other personaL matters now considered off bounds are "information provided for seeking personaL assistance for domestic vioLence and physical abuse," as weLL as "information gathered in the course of security cLearance investigations."
During a press availability the next day, University of Florida Law professor Diane Mazur said that she believes the new requirements for "credibLe evidence," besides aiming "to reduce the frequency of discharges" also seek "to reduce divisive speculation about sexual orientation."
As she explained over the phone and in email correspondence, "The new ruLes strip credibLe evidence down to the minimum. BasicaLLy, the new ruLes ask, 'Did someone teLL you directly he or she was gay? or "Did you directly observe someone having intimate relations with someone of the same sex? If yes, and you are wiLLing to so state under oath, that's credibLe evidence of a violation."
PreviousLy, Mazur said, "The military used to invite reports based on a statement that someone thought 'was intended to convey' that the speaker was gay, or based on behavior that someone thought 'amount[ed] to a non-verbal statement' that a person was gay. What this old Language invited was a Lot of intrusive specuLation about what 'sounded gay' or 'Looked gay.'"
But now, she continued," If aLL you know is what you heard from someone else, or what you speculate to be the case, or what you think "Looks gay" to you, then you don't have credibLe information."
According to the new regulations "credibLe information" also must come from a "reliable person," and the new rules make significant changes in that regard. Accusers with retaliatory motives may not be reliable, and their reports therefore would not be credibLe information. Some examples, Mazur said, wouLd be an "accuser who makes a report in an effort to blackmail a gay service member, or an accuser who makes a report after his or her sexual advances were rejected, or an accuser who is angry following a break-up."
"The new rules also state that peopLe with a motive to cause personaL or professional harm to suspected gays in general are also unreliabLe," she said. In other words, "The military shouLd not act on reports from homophobes regardLess of what they have to say."
A clear difference is that straight peopLe - unLike gay, Lesbian and bisexual service members-need not fear taLking about a Lover, significant other, or spouse; having a Letter or e-mail discovered, address to them; having a teLephone conversation with them overheard; having sex with them; taking to buddies about whom they went out with the past weekend; bragging to their buddies about their sexual exploits the past weekend; or bringing their significant other to a miLitary function.
SimiLarly, un Like straight troops, gay service members have been discharged for having a Facebook or MySpace page in which they reveal their sexuaL orientation.
Having a photograph of significant others or spouses or kids on their desk, in their Locker or on a tabLe by their bed has also resulted in gay service members' discharges, according to retired Rear AdmiraL AL Steinman, formerLy the top-ranked doctor in the Coast Guard.
Under the new regulations, the abovementioned day-to-day events in the Lives of gay troops wiLL probably not be considered "credibLe evidence," Steinman said. NevertheLess, he added, "'Don't Ask, Don't TeLL' has caused the unnecessary Loss of hundreds of troops per year if somebody finds out they're gay. Even if they don't tell anyone." Moreover, "It treats gays and Lesbians as second class citizens, subjecting them to stringent constraints on speech and behavior that nobody else has to cope with."
That is just how "draconian" the poLicy is, Steinman said.
For his part, Alexander Nicholson, executive director of Servicemembers United, hailed the new regulatory guidelines. "These changes," he said, "constitute a solid first step to help reign in many of the abuses of the poLicy that have become common practice over the past seventeen years."
Based in Washington, D.C, Servicemembers United is the nation's Largest organization of gay and Lesbian troops and veterans.
Leadership from the nation's Largest LGBT civil rights organization also applauded the Latest developments. "These new regulations are a positive step toward repeal of the discriminatory 'Don't Ask, Don't TeLL' Law this year," said Joe SoLmonese, president of the Human Rights Campaign.
And yet, "Congress must continue to move forward with Legislative action to repeal the Law this year while the Pentagon continues its work to determine how to best impLement that repeal," he said. "There is no reason for Congress to wait for the details on implementation when Secretary Gates and the President have made it dear that this Law shouLd be repeaLed."
During the press conference carried Live over CNN.com, Gates and MuLLen fielded reporters' questions.
When asked about the president's view of the one-year study on how to impLement repeaL of DADT, Gates said, "My impression is that the White House is very comfortable with the process Laid out and certainly with the changes announced today."
Another reporter asked MuLLen about the reaction among service members. "The honest answer," he said, "from what I've heard has been very supportive of moving in this direction [of full repeal]."
The Advocate's Kerry ELeveLd asked if the poLicy is retroactive. "Is there some way a service member discharged under the 'Don't Ask, Don't TeLL poLicy can try to reenlist?
"No," Gates repLied.
During his remarks. Gates affirmed his preference that DADT not be repeaLed before the Pentagon study group completes its report due Dec. 1.
At the same time, however. Gates reiterated the study's purpose. "This study is about how you impLement change if the Law is repeaLed, not about shouLd we do it." He went on to explain that branches of the armed services need to know "the attitude and feelings on part of the members of the services and their famiLies" in order to "identify where there might be probLems or issues to address," such as "changing regulations or benefits or something Like that so that when the time comes, we will have some idea what to do to carry forth" repeaL.
Sidebar Chicagoans Amy Armstrong and Freddy Allen have been entertaining audiences worldwide for well over a decade. Read more about this talented duo on page 19. Photo by Tay Kaune

Subject: Law; Gays & lesbians; Enforcement

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: DADT enforcement changes announced

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 25

Issue: 26

Pages: 1,4

Number of pages: 2

Publication year: 2010

Publication date: Mar 31, 2010

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 432808816

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dadt-enforcement-changes-announced/docview/432808816/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 31, 2010

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Sharmili Majmudar: Believing in a better world

Author: Leventhal, Micki

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sharmili-majmudar-believing-better-world/docview/432798972/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Now 36 and a Licensed clinicaL social worker, [Majmudar]'s work focuses on trauma and violence against women and queer peopLe. "Looking at the individual consequences of oppression but also at what systemic responsibility we have to changing the very conditions that allow and create that trauma and oppression," she said. "The eternaL question is 'Where do we start?' Do we start Locally, as in 'peace begins at home' or do we have a responsibility to be also addressing...

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=25&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=9&amp;date=2010-03-24&amp;atitle=Sharmili+Majmudar%3A+Believing+in+a+better+world&amp;au=Leventhal%2C+Micki&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=25&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=9&amp;date=2010-03-24&amp;atitle=Sharmili+Majmudar%3A+Believing+in+a+better+world&amp;au=Leventhal%2C+Micki&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Sharmili Majmudar, executive director of Rape Victim Advocates (RVA), was born in Chicago and spent her childhood and adolescence in Munster, Ind. She did her undergraduate work at George Washington University and then returned to Chicago's Loyola University to pursue her master's degree in social work. It was during graduate school that her queer and political identity flowered.
"I met Neena Hemmady and the women who were founding Khuli Zaban at a PeopLe Like Us bookstore event for the release of Urvashi Vaid's VirtuaL Equality," Majmudar said. "To meet Urvashi and local South Asian queer peopLe was huge for me. The women of KhuLi Zaban provided space and nurturing and a meaningfuL place for me to continue my coming out journey. It was a place I could be completely myself [and it] was essential to being comfortable with who I was and coming out to my famiLy.
"It also politicized me. I was aLready on that trajectory, having done work around vioLence against women and HIV/AIDS in college. KhuLi Zaban really pushed meto consider issues around oppression and sorial justice and the interconnectedness of homophobia, racism and sexism. It also dovetailed with the Co Lor Triangle work... creating diaLogue around the issue of racism within the LGBTQ communities."
Now 36 and a Licensed clinicaL social worker, Majmudar's work focuses on trauma and violence against women and queer peopLe. "Looking at the individual consequences of oppression but also at what systemic responsibility we have to changing the very conditions that allow and create that trauma and oppression," she said. "The eternaL question is 'Where do we start?' Do we start Locally, as in 'peace begins at home' or do we have a responsibility to be also addressing institutional and gLobal issues? I think that's a false dichotomy. I don't think we can afford to do just either."
At RVA, Majmudar and her staff provide medical and Legal advocacy as well as counseLing services to individuaL survivors of sexual and domestic vioLence; she also works with institutions such as the state's attorney's office and hospital medical staff in an effort to "impact how institutions and soriety view and treat sexual violence, going from the micro to the macro - [which is] why RVA fits so well for me," she said.
Regarding the incidence of sexual and domestic vioLence among LGBTQ communities, Majmudar noted that there is a Lack of good statistical data, and that the probLem cuts across sexual and gender identity. "How peopLe are impacted and what access they have to resources to help them deaL with it may be different [however]," she said. "There aren't as many queer-friendly sexual and domestic-vioLence services out there in the worLd. For exampLe, sheLter services - how many shelters openLy, and I sperifically mean openly, accept queer women?"
Increased reports do not necessarily mean increased incidence, she explained, expressing the hope that it indicates better communications by activists so that individuals can take advantage of the resources availabLe to them through antiviolence programs such as the one at Center on Halsted.
Does Majmudar ever get discouraged? "I get frustrated, angry. Ifs painful, messy work ... but if I didn't beLieve that we were making an impact, that there is joy and beauty and heaLing possibLe in the worLd, not just possible, but that actually happens everyday, that there are moments where justice is served and that we can see the change as a result of our collective actions, I wouldn't be doing this work," she said. "If I weren't affected by it I shouLdn't be doing it because then I cease being present, feeLing the humanity of what has happened. So it has to be hard. You have to find your way through that, find whatever touchstones and Light there is to keep you going and beLieve that a better worLd is possible."
Read more about Majmudar's anti-violence work at rapevictimadvocates.org.
Majmudar and 24 other activists will be honored Wed., March 24, at the Chicago Foundation for Women 2010 Impact Awards. Visit www.cfw.org or call 312-577-2801 for information and tickets.

Subject: Awards & honors; Gays & lesbians; Domestic violence; Women; Executives

Business indexing term: Subject: Executives

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Majmudar, Sharmili

Company / organization: Name: Rape Victim Advocates; NAICS: 813319

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Sharmili Majmudar: Believing in a better world

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 25

Issue: 25

Pages: 9

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2010

Publication date: Mar 24, 2010

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 432798972

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sharmili-majmudar-believing-better-world/docview/432798972/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 24, 2010

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Drug task force starts Web site

Author: Davis, Andrew

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/drug-task-force-starts-web-site/docview/432834885/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Pamela McCann, one of the task force's new co-chairs, stated that the site cover material the task force developed over nine months.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=21&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=5&amp;date=2010-02-24&amp;atitle=Drug+task+force+starts+Web+site&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=21&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=5&amp;date=2010-02-24&amp;atitle=Drug+task+force+starts+Web+site&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Headnote LOCAL NEWS
In a meeting held Feb. 17 at the Chicago Department of Public Health (CDPH), 333 S. State, the Chicago Task Force on LGBT Substance Use and Abuse announced that it has started a Web site that functions as an information repository.
The Web site, www.ChicagoLGBTSubstance. com, has several pages, including "Body, Mind, & Soul," which discusses emotional and mental health in addition to the physical; "Substances," which tackles alcohol, opiates and tobacco, among other drugs; and "Chicago Services," which provides a List of references and agencies that aid in drug treatment, but which also includes a chat room.
Pamela McCann, one of the task force's new co-chairs, stated that the site cover material the task force developed over nine months. She also discussed the recent Creating Change conference that took place in Dallas and how the sodai/ online media is "generation-specific." McCann added that the Twitter hash tag for that conference is "cclO," meaning that tweets that mention an item with a "#" prefix will appear when the tag is typed in the search box; she said that one has been proposed for the task force.
Simone KoehLinger, a former co-chair who is the CDPH's director of the office of LGBT health, gave a presentation on the top 10 lesbian health priorities. In doing so, she cited a paper from the Gay & Lesbian Medical Association entitled "Top 10 Things Lesbians Should Discuss with their Healthcare Provider."
The issues covered in the paper include breast cancer, depression/anxiety, heart health, gynecological cancer, fitness, tobacco, alcohol, substance use, domestic violence and osteoporosis. During her talk, Koehlinger presented several startling statistics - including that, according to one study conducted by Chicago HeaLth and Life Experiences of Women (CHLEW), 20 percent of bisexual women and Lesbians in the sample had attempted suicide at Least once. However, the "good news," as KoehLinger stated, was that the study also found that 47 percent of Lesbians had seen a mentaL-health professionaL within the Last two years.
Ed Negron, the task force's other co-chair, said that the group wiLL expLore aspects of LGBT health that reflect the entire community. Negron said that the task force wiLL "focus on one Letter at a time in the LGBTQ community, which wiLL give us a wider range of [ideas] to come up with."
Reflecting a new agenda that includes quarterLy meetings instead of month Ly ones, McCann said that the next general meeting wiLL take pLace May 19. However, a March 2 meeting is planned that wiLL focus on the task force's direction; consuLtant/executive coach H WaLker is slated to attend.

Subject: Task forces; Gays & lesbians; Electronic government; Drug abuse; Meetings; Websites

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Department of Public Health-Chicago IL; NAICS: 923120

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Drug task force starts Web site

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 25

Issue: 21

Pages: 5

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2010

Publication date: Feb 24, 2010

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 432834885

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/drug-task-force-starts-web-site/docview/432834885/se -2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 24, 2010

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Cubs' Laura Ricketts: Owner making history

Author: Baim, Tracy

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cubs-laura-ricketts-owner-making-history/docview/432829329/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Since 1991 Cubs Care has given over $15 million. They've given over $1 mi'llion a year the last five years," laura said.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=21&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2010-02-24&amp;atitle=Cubs%27+Laura+Ricketts%3A+Owner+making+history&amp;au=Baim%2C+Tracy&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=21&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2010-02-24&amp;atitle=Cubs%27+Laura+Ricketts%3A+Owner+making+history&amp;au=Baim%2C+Tracy&amp;id=doi:

Full text: When Laura Ricketts and the rest of her family closed on the deal to purchase the Chicago Cubs baseball franchise last fall, the furthest thing from her mind was the impact this would have on the gay community. Even though Laura was an out Lesbian activist and philanthropist in Chicago for several years, the Cubs deal was all about the team.
A few months later, Ricketts does realize the impact of being the only openly gay owner of a major League men's sports franchise in the U.S., and also a rare woman owner and board member. She wants to make sure to serve both the Cubs and her community well.
And this year, Ricketts, 42, and her partner of five years are not just becoming part of Cubs history, they are also welcoming a new Cubs fan into the family: Laura is pregnant and is expecting a baby girl in May.
"We're extremely excited [that] we're expecting a baby in spring," Laura said. "This is a big year for us, not only in regards to the Cubs acquisition, but if you can imagine, for my partner and I an even bigger blessed event. My whoLe family is excited."
Laura sat down for an interview with Windy City Times at Wrigley ReLd Feb. 17, as the Cubs head into Spring training and her family looks forward to their first season as owners of the Cubs. The team is among the country's most loved, despite having not won the World Series in 102 years.
Laura and her three brothers (Pete, Tom and Todd) grew up in Omaha, Neb., in the 1960s and 1970s. laura was the third oldest. Their father J. Joseph Ricketts founded the company later known as TD Ameritrade in the 1970s, and he and his wife Marlene worked extremely hard to grow the company. It took years for their sweat equity to pay off, but it did just that and the family joined the ranks of the country's richest once TD Ameritrade, an online brokerage firm, went public.
Tom, the second oldest child, spearheaded the Cubs effort. laura said thatthe plan came about in part because the family wanted to work together in a family business environment again. All the family members are co-owners, and the four siblings make up the board of directors. Tom is Executive Chairman of the Cubs, and the most hands-on day-to-day.
Laura's area of emphasis for the Cubs is government relations, community relations and philanthropy, specifically through the Cubs Care charitable giving. Chicago Cubs Charities has given millions of dollars over the years, including donations to neighboring gay groups such as Center on Halsted (the gymnasium is sponsored by the Cubs), Howard Brown Health Center and the AIDS Foundation of Chicago.
"Since 1991 Cubs Care has given over $15 million. They've given over $1 mi'llion a year the last five years," laura said. The mission is to make grants to non-profits that aid children with special needs, support youth sports programs, help victims of domestic violence and assist s o eia l service efforts in lakeview. "In general, I'd like to see all of those efforts expand, we should be doing more, and the family and the team have expressed an interest in expanding," laura said. "I think the Cubs have come quite a long way, there's just always more that can be done. I'd like to see it expand for the LGBT community. We hosted the Closing Ceremony for the Gay Games in 2006, and we support LGBT organizations within our community."
Exploring the world
All four Ricketts children were encouraged to explore their own passions, and all four ended up in Chicago for college. Todd attended loyola while the others went to the University of Chicago. laura started as an economics major then took a break before returning to get a degree in philosophy in 1995. After working in the "real world," laura returned to school, this time to receive a law degree from the University of Michigan in 1998. Chicago pulled her back, and she worked at a law firm before leaving to follow her entrepreneurial spirit, co-founding the internet venture Ecotravel, LLC, where she is sti'll the president.
The timing of Ecotravel's formation wasn't ideal: starting an on line venture to promote ecotourism right before the 911 tragedy and the dot.com bubble bursting. laura and her partners realized that in order to weather the challenging environment they would need to take a more long-term approach and alter their business plan.
"I began getting more involved with LGBT volunteering as well as housing issues," laura said. "A lot of my time was going to help nonprofit organizations. One was Housing Opportunities for Women, where I now chair their leadership council. They provide comprehensive support services for women. They find them permanent homes, it's not a shelter, and then they provide support to help them avoid homelessness again. They deal with the issues that made them homeless to begin with, the underlying issues, such as domestic violence, health issues and substance abuse."
By the mid 2000s, laura also was getting more involved in the gay community, specifically through lambda Legal.
"The political environment several years ago made me realize the importance of being out and standing up for myself, and really being involved in my community," she said. "I had partidpated somewhat in all sorts of organizations in Chicago, but I was really impressed with lambda legal, the impact they have not just on individuals but on the community as a whole. I was also trying to help get more women involved. A lot of fundraisers in the community are very male, so I started working with Mona Noriega who was at lambda at the time, and Cindy Homan at lambda, to start doing women's sodai events. We also partnered with lesbian entrepreneurs and other women's and gay groups. We worked with GayCo (a performance group), the Chopping Block, and others to make women aware of the important work lambda does. The reach of their work is amazing."
Laura continues on lambda legal's national board, where she has served almost five years. She's also on the board of GayCo and has cochaired events for Equality Illinois (which recently honored laura for her work) and Howard Brown Health Center.
Laura has also gotten more political, and served on Barack Obama's lGBT finance committee during the 2008 campaign. She now co-chairs the Democratic National Committee's lGBT leadership Council nationally. "The aim is outreach to the lGBT community, and also to do fundraising within the lGBT community," she said. "Its really to raise the visibility of our issues."
What does laura think of the recent call by some gay activists to "pause" donations to the DNC until more movement is made on gay issues? laura said she has "mixed feelings."
"I appreciate the impatience," she said. "I think it's created a healthy dialogue, which is needed. I think that we need more people speaking up, saying ifs not enough, that we don't have enough. We need that advocating voice. It also needs to be constructive, to open the dialogue. At the same time, we really need to strengthen the president's hand. I appreciate the pushing ... I want these rights, too ... . But I don't think withdrawing from the process is the answer. In the end it's good more people are speaking out.
I really believe Obama's heart is in the right place, and that he fu lly intends to follow through on his campaign promises. I have no doubt about that. Ifs a matter of a timetable. And of course, for us, tomorrow is too late, and yesterday is not fast enough."
For Laura, coming out to her family as a Democrat may have been more difficult than coming out as a lesbian.
"I grew up in a very conservative family. Nebraska is very conservative," she said. "I was raised Catholic. On the gay issue, my family was immediately accepting. Every single member of my family is supportive, they all love my partner and treat her as a member of the family, an inlaw. I came out to various family members in my early 30s. I didn't really come out to myself until I was about 30. I knew, but I really didn't take the step and come out until then."
The harder one was explaining her political views. "While there are differences of opinion in our family, we're all very accepting of each other," she said. "And we appreciate the different perspectives. I grew up white, middle class, conservative and Christian. When I came out, suddenly I was the other. I think it's a real gift to have that perspective, and it helps me appreciate when people have a different perspective. It makes me appreciate my family members when they have a different perspective.."
Laura's brother Peter Ricketts was the Republican nominee for the 2006 U.S. Senate seat from Nebraska, where he and his family live. He ran on a very conservative platform, including against gay marriage and abortion, and was helped in his unsuccessful bid by George W. Bush and Dick Cheney.
"When he ran for office, we talked about the issues more," laura said. "At the time it was more of an issue, it was more relevant. We're on opposite sides of some issues. ... I don't know about other families, but in our family we're always going to have differences of opinion, on not just political issues. I don't know any family that doesn't have that. There's always that underlying relationship and underlying affection we have for one another. I can't see anything affecting the overall relationship. When you love somebody, your motivation is to really have a serious dialogue."
About being raised Catholic, laura also has mixed emotions. "I think that being raised Catholic really provided a lot of valuable underpinnings, as to who I am, how I live my life. I think there's a lot of beauty and truths that I've been taught, in how to live, how to conduct yourself and walk in the world. To whom much is given, much is expected. That comes very much from my Catholic upbringing. You can see that in my whole family, particularly with regards to the Cubs. While it was very hard-won fight to become owners of the Cubs, I think we all greatly appreciate the unique position we are in. How fortunate we are to really be stewards of this amazing and historic franchise. We don't take that lightly at all. To appreciate that, while it's a very privileged position, ifs also a responsibility to the fans, the city, the community, and part of that is the LGBT community. To appredate this privilege that has been given to us, to make something out of it, to give back, to do something good with it."
Laura's own interest in sports came at an early age. "I like to say I was the best athlete in the family," she said, laughing. "My mother would agree with that, but my brothers might argue. I was always in some kind of sport, yearround. Softball, volleyball, basketball, track. All year round. Softball was my primary sport. ... I really loved softball. Growing up in Nebraska, the whole family were Cornhusker football fans. There aren't a lot of pro sports there. ... So coming to Chicago, it was fabulous, there are so many great sports teams, and the Cubs are a big part of that."
Laura also says that Title IX, which mandated equality for women in sports, was just in time for her own athletic interests. "I think you can track the year that my little league division started offering softball to girls back to Title IX. My brothers had participated in baseball, and ifs something I wanted to do as well. Participating in sports, particularly team sports, I find teaches you so much about how to work with people, it teaches you teamwork, how to be a team member, whether in athletics or at work."
Buying the Cubs
The family's interest in sports thus made it appealing when Tom first suggested they purchase the Cubs. But where did they get the money for the purchase? That traces back to their family's roots.
"My parents founded Ameritrade in various iterations in the mid 1970s. We were not raised with money at all, we were the poorest on the block," laura said. "My parents scrimped and saved and every penny went back into the business. We grew up watching them work hard, and with that work ethic, putting in the hours. Obviously, it paid off for them, they are very successful, but all the success they really earned. Ameritrade didn't become as big as it did until most of us were grown. Ameritrade went public when I was in law school. My father really encouraged us to really go and find our own careers and passions, and after age 30 we could consider coming back to work for Ameritrade. I did think about it briefly, but dedded I wanted to stay in Chicago."
Ameritrade did eventually bring a lot of wealth to their family, "but it's no longer our family business, and hasn't been for a long time. [But] we all grew up with a sense of family working together to really build a quality product," she said.
It was Tom's idea to pursue the Cubs. "He realized the Tribune would likely be wanting to sell, and thought this might be a way we could put some of that community family wealth together and it would be a way to bring the family together to create some of that family business environment for all of us," laura said. "It would be a project we could all participate in for generations to come, not just us but our children and their children.
"I think we all kind of thought it was a bit if a dream. We've all been Cubs fans for years. Tom was really our leader. The Cubs are fortunate to have Tom at the helm. He has the personality and character that is so well suited to the job and he was able to navigate the whole family through the process. He's very smart, patient, he's very strategic, he is very diplomatic, and an incredibly hard worker. At times during the [years-long] process various family members wanted to just give up, it was so hard, and complicated. Tom was right person to help us stay on course and weed through the details and ramifications. We were all part of the process but the bulk of the work fell on Tom's shoulders.
"Because of the nature of the family ownership and because it is a significant investment for the family, all of us intend to be a little more involved than you might find for the average board member of a corporation," laura said. "I actually am spending a fair amount of my time on Cubs business and I could be doing a lot more."
When the $900 million purchase of the Cubs went through in October 2009, the Ricketts family outlined three primary goals they had for the franchise. First, they want to "build a winning organization both on the field and off. That means being competitive every year and bringing a World Series championship to the city," laura said.
"Second, we want to be good stewards of WrigLey FieLd, and that means we wiLL make sure to keep the history and beauty of WrigLey, but at the same time do improvements so it can Last for another generation or two," she said. "And third, we want to be good neighbors. One of the great things about WrigLey is that it is in this neighborhood, unLike stadiums off in middLe of nowhere in a sea of parking Lots. It's one of the things that makes WrigLey and the Cubs different. We appreciate that. "
Has the community weLcomed the famiLy so far? "I think so," Laura said. "There is a sense of relief that there are human faces behind the ownership of the team. And the fact that we're Cubs fans, that we appreciate the history and uniqueness of this franchise and share the same passion as the other fans, is important. I think there's a Lot of hope and optimism. We've had a very warm reception from the neighborhood and the rooftop owners. I think people appreciate we are candid and want an open and honest dialogue. PeopLe have their concerns and issues ... night games, concerts, the normal things. But overall we feeL the reception has been very warm."
Laura explained that changes at Wrigley will include improved bathroom facilities for fans, plus better training facilities and locker rooms for the players. "We want to create the best fan experience in professional sports here at Wrigley," she said. "While Wrigley has this amazing charm and history, everybody knows about the challenges because of how old the stadium is. ... One of the things I was most shocked about was the state of the clubhouse. It was pretty sparse. I think my high school sports facilities were probably better than what the pLayers had. So of course we want to make them more comfortable for the pLayers and their families. ... We're also hiring a hospitality officer and team ambassadors that will be within WrigLey and around the neighborhood, to improve the fan experience. We're going to try and make it more family friendly, and have more formal planned autograph opportunities for kids."
What about the already-approved triangle building development, a parcel of land just west of the stadium? "We know the people in the community are anxious to get that up. We are too. But we want to be very thoughtful and measured about what we build because we want it to be useful for a long time to come," Laura said. Plans could include training facilities for the players, office space, and upscale dining and retail.
As for helping achieve victory on the field? "The facilities and how we treat the players and the amenities we provide for them are all part of that," Laura said. "We're hiring a team nutritionist so they can eat better, here and away. And a lot of work has been done on the minor league system; that takes an awfuL Long time to deveLop. We're going to start seeing the fruits of that, it's going to start to pay off for us. It's about being strategic, about the players you sign. It is not necessarily what you're paying, but their skills, their character. There's so much about baseball thafs psychological as well. PeopLe need to be treated Like the winners we expect them to be. There's not one answer to getting to the WorLd Series. I think if you consistently put a team on the field that can compete, every year, then you know ifs going to happen. That's our priority."
Being a lesbian owner
Interestingly for Laura, being a Lesbian "was one of the things I didn't think too much about before we closed [the sa le] last fall. We were working so hard to get the deaL done. What did occur to me, and the rest of the family, is what a great honor this is. And how exciting it wouLd be, but also a big responsibility, and how much work it wouLd be. So I thought about it much more in that context than actually being a gay owner, and being a woman. It was really after we closed that that aspect of it became much more present for me.
"We all feel a great sense of responsibility," Laura continues. "For me personally, I feel Like I'm in an even more unique position being a woman who is an owner, who is also a director, and then also being an openLy gay owner of a major professionaL sports team. I'm just beginning to appreciate what a unique position this is. It's humbling. I feeL even more responsibility, it makes me want to do even more to work even harder, to really honor that opportunity I've been given."
Laura said that she has seen no backlash from fans, players, other baseball owners or Major League Baseball.
"The League did a background check," she said. "They wanted to know all the organizations we're involved with, where we went to schooL, where we invested and the jobs we've had. They do a pretty extensive background check. In terms of the LGBT issue, it was never an issue at all."
How would Laura respond if homophobic comments are made in the Locker room, or to the media?
"I haven't really had a single incident of any anti-LGBT prejudice or uncomfortable incidents," Laura said. "It really has not been a factor in terms of my involvement with the team, the players, the people working here, the League. Everybody's been respectfuL. I think that obviously is an issue in professionaL sports and sports in general. We're just getting started here. Issues may come up. I am not a shrinking vioLet and I've been an advocate, so I'll do all I can if something does happen.
"I think a lot of those issues that come up are born out of ignorance," she concluded. "The way to dispel that ignorance is to live your life, be who you are, live by example, show people who you are and not hide from it, not back down from it. Most of the time peopLe are very respectful of that. Thafs been my experience."
Sidebar Laura Ricketts poses in front of Wrigley Field Feb. 17. Photo by Hal Bairn
Sidebar From the October 2009 press conference announcing that the Ricketts family purchase of the Cubs franchise had gone through. Photo of (from left) Pete, Tom, Laura and Todd Ricketts courtesy of the Chicago Cubs Baseball Club, LLC/Stephen Green

Subject: Professional baseball; Sports team owners; Families & family life; Gays & lesbians; Politics; Acquisitions & mergers

Business indexing term: Subject: Acquisitions & mergers

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Ricketts, Laura; Obama, Barack

Company / organization: Name: Chicago Cubs; NAICS: 711211

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Cubs' Laura Ricketts: Owner making history

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 25

Issue: 21

Pages: 1,6,19

Number of pages: 3

Publication year: 2010

Publication date: Feb 24, 2010

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 432829329

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cubs-laura-ricketts-owner-making-history/docview/432829329/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 24, 2010

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Gay candidates net mixed results

Author: Davis, Andrew

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gay-candidates-net-mixed-results/docview/432825852/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: John DaLton easily won the Democratic primary for the 16th Circuit, Kane, "A" vacancy. Following his victory, he told Windy City Times, "[The win] was very humbLing. As I said Last night to the peopLe gathered at my house Last night, a candidate is not a campaign ... and I had a tremendous amount of help.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=19&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=5&amp;date=2010-02-10&amp;atitle=Gay+candidates+net+mixed+results&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=19&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=5&amp;date=2010-02-10&amp;atitle=Gay+candidates+net+mixed+results&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

Full text: On Feb. 2, Illinois voters weighed in on some unusuaLLy competitive primary races, and a few surprises emerged - with one being that gay candidates fared better outside Cook County that they did in it.
For many candidates, the extremely Low voter turnout hurt them, with everything from the weather to people not wanting to commit to one political party being factors.
In one of the few races that had national implications - the race for the U.S. Senate seat currently held by RoLand Burn's and once occupied by President Barack Obama - openly gay candidate Jacob Meister withdrew Jan. 31, and threw his support behind State Treasurer ALexi Giannoulias. Meister told Windy City Times, "It's about party unity. ... I've gotten repeated and very in-depth assurances from him about his dedication to the LGBT principles, and that he is willing to 'burn political capital' to move the agenda forward. And he has guaranteed that he is going to work with me, and he is going to adopt my policy agenda." Giannoulias eventually won by a slim margin over former Chicago Inspector General David Hoffman; Cheryle Jackson finished third.
With Republican Scott Brown winning the U.S. Senate seat in Massachusetts formerly held by the late Ted Kennedy, the White House has definite interest in the winner of the Illinois race.
Some interesting and hard-fought races took place for seats in the Illinois General Assembly.
In the 7th District (Illinois Senate), incumbent Heather Steans defeated openly gay candidate Jim Madigan, who would have been the first out state senator had he prevailed tonight and in the general election, 65 percent to 35 percent. Madigan told Windy City Times, "It was a tough thing to challenge a candidate who had all the ward organizations. We did our best and came up short. I think the things I advanced as my priorities and that I critiqued about the establishment are things I still believe in. I'm very glad we did what we did."
In the 5th District (Illinois House), incumbent Ken Dunkin fought back a stiff challenge from openly gay candidate David Schroeder in the Democratic primary.
Also, in the only race to feature two openly gay candidates, incumbent Democratic state Rep. Deb Meli (40th District) defeated Joe Laiacona 66 percent to 34 percent. MeLL, who currentLy does not have a generaL-election opponent, toLd Windy City Times, "I reaLLy Love my area, and I'm just reaLLy honored that they Like the job I do - but there's stili a Lot of work to do, and I'm just going to continue."
Another gay candidate, Ed MuLLen, ran against Dan FarLey and Ann M. Williams in the Democratic primary for the 11th District seat in the Illinois House, but finished third; Williams prevailed. Greg Harris, the only openLy gay man in the GeneraL Assembly, was not opposed. Bob MueLLer, another out candidate, ran uncontested in the Green primary for the 47th District seat in the Illinois House.
The judicial races had comparable resuLts. Last year, Sebastian Patti made history has the first openLy gay person in the ILLinois AppeLLate Court when he was appointed by the state's supreme court. However, Patti was not eLected to the post, and Mary Rochford won. Patti will return to Cook County Circuit Court since he had not resigned his post there.
As for Cook County races, Lesbian candidate Linda PaueL was involved in a tight Democratic primary race for the DoLan vacancy, but ultimateLy Lost to Susan Kennedy SuLLivan. On her Facebook page, PaueL posted Feb. 2, "WeLL, it was close.. .We gave it our aLLI Thanks so much for aLl your support and encouragement. Thanks too for your votes. I'LL be back!" Candidate Joanne Fehn Lost to John Callahan.
Lesbian candidate Mary Trew had her own tight race, but she uLtimately finished second to Steve Bernstein. Trew toLd Windy City Times that she was "disappointed" but was "pLeased with how we did." There were six Democratic candidates in the Cook County Circuit Court, 9th Subcircuit, "A" vacancy race.
In the race for MetropoLitan Water Reclamation District commissioner, Todd Connor finished fifth in a contest in which the top three vote-getters in each party moved on to the November eLection. On his Facebook page, he acknowledged his supporters, writing, "I cannot thank you aLL enough for such a great effort - I am so proud to know and be associated with so many great peopLe!"
Outside Cook County
John DaLton easily won the Democratic primary for the 16th Circuit, Kane, "A" vacancy. Following his victory, he told Windy City Times, "[The win] was very humbLing. As I said Last night to the peopLe gathered at my house Last night, a candidate is not a campaign ... and I had a tremendous amount of help. It was reaLLy overwheLming to get that kind of support from my friends and my community." If DaLton defeats Republican David Akemann in November, he wiLL be the first out candidate in Kane County history and the first judicial candidate outside of Cook County to win; however, DaLton stressed that aLthough "it wouLd be progress for the movement, I'm not running as the gay candidate. We're asking what is a traditionaLLy conservative coLLar county to put aside its prejudices and vote based on qualifications - and, Last night, I think they did that."
Both downstate gay candidates won uncontested races. Kent DeLay will compete against Republican Raymond Poe in November for a seat in the state House (99th District), while Christopher Boyster is vying for a spot on the 29member Sanagamon County board. (Sangamon County includes the state capitaL, SpringfieLd.)
Boyster toLd Windy City Times Feb. 3 that "the chairman of the Democratic Party caLLed me and said, ? think we just nominated the first openLy gay man in the history of the city.'" In November, Boyster will compete against Bill Moss, a two-term incumbent who is vice-chair of the LocaL Republican party.
Governor's race; Cohen
There were on Ly two candidates in the Democratic primary for governor - but they waged a war of words that made the race extremely tight. On Feb. 4, Dan Hynes conceded to Pat Quinn after a vote in which the current governor won by fewer than 7,000 votes.
The Lieutenant governor's race - which usuaLLy does not receive much press - got pLenty of ink, thanks to Democrat Scott Lee Cohen, who withdrew after a firestorm that incLuded aLLegations of domestic abuse, a relationship with a prostitute and financiaL troubles. (Quinn said Feb. 8 that Cohen shouLd not be reimbursed for the $2 milLion Cohen personaLly put into his own campaign.)

Subject: Candidates; Gays & lesbians; Voter behavior; Primaries & caucuses

Location: Cook County Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Gay candidates net mixed results

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 25

Issue: 19

Pages: 5

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2010

Publication date: Feb 10, 2010

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 432825852

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gay-candidates-net-mixed-results/docview/432825852/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 10, 2010

Last updated: 2024-03-06

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Will faith-based agencies help Haiti's gay community?

Author: Monroe, Irene

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/will-faith-based-agencies-help-haitis-gay/docview/432815438/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Ironically, homosexuality has been legal in Haiti since 1986. But few protections and provisions come with it. For example, same-sex marriage, and civil unions are not recognized. Ifs unclear whether lGBTQ couples can adopt children or have custody of their own children. lGBTQ Haitians don't openly serve in the military.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=18&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2010-02-03&amp;atitle=Will+faith-based+agencies+help+Haiti%27s+gay+community%3F&amp;au=Monroe%2C+Irene&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=18&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2010-02-03&amp;atitle=Will+faith-based+agencies+help+Haiti%27s+gay+community%3F&amp;au=Monroe%2C+Irene&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Since the world community has descended on Haiti with relief aid in response to the Jan. 12 earthquake, I am wondering how Haiti's lGBTQ communities are being helped.
As one of Haiti's most marginal groups the question arises in response to how some American lGBTQ New Orleans were treated during the Hurricane Katrina relief effort in 2005.
During Hurricane Katrina former President George W. Bush's conservative faith-based organizations - like the Salvation Army, Catholic Charities and all other organizations in Bush's "armies of compassion" - highlighted how after the storm homophobia blew in.
While seemingly invisible in the disaster, many lGBTQ evacuees of Katrina and their families faced discrimination at the hands of those conservative faith-based relief organizations because of their sexual orientation, gender identity and/or HIV status.
'Tragedy does not discriminate and neither should relief agencies," stated Kevin Cathcart, executive director of lambda legal, in a news release in 2005. "In our experience during the aftermath of Sept. 11, lGBT people face compounded difficulties because on top of the disaster, they face discrimination when it comes to recognizing their relationships, leading to even more hardship at the worst moment imaginable."
My concern is will many of these same conservative faith -based relief agencies that are now in Haiti transfer their homophobic attitudes onto Haiti's lGBTQ citizens.
Ironically, homosexuality has been legal in Haiti since 1986. But few protections and provisions come with it. For example, same-sex marriage, and civil unions are not recognized. Ifs unclear whether lGBTQ couples can adopt children or have custody of their own children. lGBTQ Haitians don't openly serve in the military. They don't have anti-hate-crime bills that specifically addresses discrimination and harassment lGBTQ Haitians face on the basis due to their sexual orientation or gender identity. Minimally, lGBTQ Haitians are protected under its Constitution as stated in Artide 35-2 that prohibits discrimination in the workplace based on, "sex, beliefs, opinions and marital status." And the United Nation's International Bill of Human Rights mainly protects lGBTQ Haitians. With no queer enclaves in Port-au-Prince and other big cities throughout Haiti, many lGBTQ Haitians are left puzzled by what it means that homosexuality is legal in their country.
However, as in all repressively homophobic cultures, lGBTQ people have always found ways to express and to live out their true authentic lives. In Haiti, how openly queer you are depends not only on your class, profession and skin complexion, but also your religious affiliation.
In a country that is predominately Roman Catholic homosexuality is condemned. But among Haiti's lGBTQ middle and profession classes they find ways to socialize out of the public "gaydar" and with impunity.
For example, in Petionville, an upscale suburb of Port-au-Prince of mostly American and European whites and multiracial Haitians, is where many lGBTQ people will informally gather for dinner parties, at restaurants and beaches. The well-known four-star tourist hotel, the Hotel Montana in the hills of Petionville that was recently destroyed by the quake, is one of the hot spots. And these queers hold positions as government officials, business people, NGO and UN aid workers.
For the poorer classes of lGBTQ Haitians who live, work and socialize in the densely populated and improvised capital city of Port-au-Prince, discrimination on the basis of their sexual orientation and gender expressions is commonplace. The 2002 documentary Des Hommes et Dieux (Of Men and Gods) by anthropologist Anne lescot exposed the daily struggles of Haitian transwomen. Blondine in the film said, "When people insult me because I wear a dress I am not ashamed of how I am. Masisis (gay males) can't walk down the street in a wig and dress."
But poorer classes of lGBTQ Haitians do have at least two ways to openly express and celebrate who they are-in Vodou and in Rara festivals.
Although the universal perception of Vodou is the Hollywood stereotype of an orgiastic ceremony ritualizing the malevolent powers black magic, and engaging in cannibalism, Haitian Vodou is an ancestral folk religion that expresses an acceptance of all people of all sexual orientations and gender expressions.
With the belief that behavior is guided by a spirit (loa), gay males in Haitian Vodou are under the divine protection of Erzulie Freda, the spirit of love. And as a feminine sprit, gay males are allowed to imitate and worship her. And lesbians (madivins) are considered to be under the patronage of Erzulie Dantor, a fierce protector of women and children experiencing domestic violence. Dantor is bisexual, but she prefers the company women.
At Rara Festivals, a yearly festival that begins following Carnival belongs to the peasant and urban poor of Haiti. The Rara bands come out of Vodou societies that have gay congregations where gay men are permitted to cross-dress with impunity.
It is my hope that the many conservative faith-based groups and organizations that are now part of Haiti's earthquake relief effort will not discriminate against Haiti's lGBTQ community as many of them did toward New Orleans's queer communities during Katrina.
And it is my hope they remember that engaging acts of goodwill are needed in the face of this natural disasters and they must be inclusive of all of God's people.

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Homophobia; Earthquakes; Disaster relief; Discrimination

Location: Haiti

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Will faith-based agencies help Haiti's gay community?

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 25

Issue: 18

Pages: 10

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2010

Publication date: Feb 3, 2010

Section: VIEWPOINT

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 432815438

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/will-faith-based-agencies-help-haitis-gay/docview/432815438/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Feb 3, 2010

Last updated: 2024-03-06

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Guide to the Gays

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/guide-gays/docview/432835949/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: The skinny: A part-time instructor at Columbia College Chicago for almost 17 years, laiacona told Windy City Times (in an interview that ran Oct. 21) that he is a better candidate than incumbent Rep.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=17&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2010-01-27&amp;atitle=Guide+to+the+Gays&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=17&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2010-01-27&amp;atitle=Guide+to+the+Gays&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: The Feb. 2, 2010, primary elections have taken on added significance for Cook County's LGBT community, as at Least 15 openLy gay and Lesbian individuals are vying for various posts. Below are gay and lesbian candidates for office. (Most of the candidates are in the Democratic party; Bob Mueller is a member of the Green Party.)
Deb Meli
Race: Illinois State Representative (40th District)
Web site: DebMell.org
The skinny: Deb Mell started her first term making history as the first open lesbian in the Illinois General Assembly - and then did something historic in being the only representative to vote against impeachment of then-Gov. Rod Blagojevich, her brother-in-law. (She told Windy City Times, "The day I made that vote, the Rod I knew and the Rod they were talking about didn't match up," adding that people told her afterwards that they were happy she voted that way.) A staunch advocate for marriage equality, Mell is locked in a contentious primary race with openly gay Joe laiacona, marking the only race between two out candidates in the state.
Joe laiacona
Race: Illinois State Representative (40th District)
Web site: FriendsForJoelaiacona.org
The skinny: A part-time instructor at Columbia College Chicago for almost 17 years, laiacona told Windy City Times (in an interview that ran Oct. 21) that he is a better candidate than incumbent Rep. Deb Mell because "I have 62 years of experience in living, I'm better educated, I solidly represent the middleclass people in my district - and I'm better able to speak on their behalf." laiacona might be known to some in the lGBT community as "Jack Rinella," his pseudonym when he wrote "leather Views" for Gay Chicago Magazine. laiacona recently dropped a petition challenge against Mell, citing a lack of funds.
Jim Madiqan
Race: Illinois State Senate (7th District)
Web site: JimMadigan.com
The skinny: This race is probably one of the most competitive in Illinois, as challenger Madigan is pitted against Democratic incumbent state Sen. Heather Steans, who recently introduced a marriage-equality measure. (The primary winner would then compete against Republican Adam Robinson, who is for same-sex marriage.) Madigan has spoken on a slew of issues ranging from women's equality to preventing video gambling in the district. A few weeks ago, the contest became even more contentious when Steans' husband, leo Smith, confronted Madigan at a pro-Madigan rally in an Andersonville gay nightspot.
linda J. Pauel
Race: Cook County Judge, Dolan vacancy
Web site: lindaJPauel.com
The skinny: A 1991 summa cum laude graduate of Chicago-Kent law School, Pauel has been an attorney for the City of Chicago's law Department since 1994. Among the organizations that have endorsed Pauel are the Victory Fund, AFl-CIO and the Cook County Democratic Party. In a recent interview with Windy City Times, Pauel commented, "It's important to the community to see that we are viable candidates and that we can win despite that fact that people know that we're gay." She was born in Jamaica to parents of mixed heritage (Chinese, Jamaican and Dutch).
Sebastian Patti
Race: 1st Appellate, South vacancy
Web site: www.SebastianPatti.com
The skinny: Patti, who is running against four other Democrats, became the first openly gay member of the Illinois Appellate Court when he was inducted Aug. 3. Patti (who became Illinois' first openly gay appointed judge in 1996) is a director of the Alliance of Illinois Judges, which was formed by the lesbian and Gay Judges of the Circuit Court of Cook County; the group hopes to be a resource for fellow judges and the legal community, and to be mentors for lGBT law students.
John Dalton
Race: 16th Circuit Court, Kane, "A" vacancy
Web site: JohnDaltonForJudge.com
The skinny: Dalton - who would be the first openly gay judge elected outside of Cook County if he prevails - has been an arbitration chairman for more than a decade and an attorney for more than 22 years. Dalton plans to fund his campaign without accepting donations from attorneys - a rare position among Illinois judicial candidates. Also, Dalton is an active member of Elgin's First Congregational Church, United Church of Christ.
Bob Mueller
Race: Illinois State Representative (47th District)
Web site: VoteMueller.org
The skinny: Green Party candidate Mueller, 63, resides in Westmont and is a graduate of the University of Illinois at Chicago. Back in 1997, Mueller and his lawyer, Fred Wellisch (now a DePaul University professor), argued that the Defense of Marriage Act is unconstitutional, leading to the filing of three U.S. Supreme Court petitions regarding lGBT families in 1999, 2001 and 2002; Ted Olson (now representing plaintiffs in the current Prop 8 case in California) was on the other side as solicitor general when the 2001 and 2002 petitions were signed.
Greg Harris
Race: Illinois State Representative (13th District)
Web site: GregHarris.org
The skinny: Harris, who is openly HIV-positive as well as being openly gay, has represented his district (which includes Uptown, Ravenswood, lincoln Square, North Center and Bowmanville) since being elected in 2006. Although his name has appeared most prominently in lGBT publications in connection with the issue of marriage equality (introducing a civil-marriage bill), he is intimately involved with a host of other issues, such as the state budget, foreclosure mediation, children of incarcerated parents and insurance reform. He is currently running unopposed.
Ed Mullen
Race: Illinois State Representative (11th District)
Web site: VoteEdMullen.com
The skinny: This district - which includes parts of lakeview, lincoln Park and Ravenswood - is up for grabs because incumbent rep John Fritchey is running for a seat on the Cook County Board of Commissioners. On his Web site, Mullen describes himself as "an independent and progressive Democrat" who strongly believes "in political reform, economic development, and social justice." Fun fact: Mullen is a founding member of the D.C. Cowboys, a gay country /western dance group that has appeared on America's Got Talent.
Joanne Fehn
Race: Cook County Judge, Kelley vacancy
Web site: JoanneFehn.com
The skinny: Although she entered the race relatively late (in August), Fehn has been making up for lost time with a slew of fundraisers and personal appearances, including hosting a Dec. 13 event at la Villa Restaurant, 3632 N. Pulaski, that benefited several organizations, including New Moms and Tabitha House. Fehn has practiced transactional law for 15 years, and counts lesbian state Rep. Deb Mell among her supporters.
Todd Connor
Race: Metropolitan Water Reclamation District (MWRD) commissioner
Web site: ToddConnor.org
The skinny: A military veteran, Connor was commissioned as a U.S. Navy officer, quickly becoming lieutenant and serving two tours of duty. As a candidate, his platform includes competitive bidding; investing in a green infrastructure; and bringing transparency and accountability to the MWRD with an inspector general. Considering his background (earning an MBA at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business), it should surprise no one that Connor, 31, wants to bring more of a business perspective to the commission.
David schroeder
Race: Illinois State Representative (5th District)
Web site: PeopleForSchroeder.com
The skinny: Schroeder is another challenger who faces a strong opponent; this time it is incumbent Ken Dunkin (who Schroeder calls "the ultimate Blagojevich enabler" on his Web site). Among the issues he supports are marriage equality, campaign -contribution limits and reproductive choice (adding that he advocates "measures that will lower the number of abortions," such as "medically accurate sex education").
Jacob Meister
Race: U.S. Senate
Web site: MeisterForSenate.com
The skinny: Being in a contest for Roland Bum's' U.S. Senate seat (and the one occupied by one-time U.S. Sen. Barack Obama), Meister finds himself in a battle with heavy-hitters such as current Illinois Treasurer Alexi Gian nou lias, former City of Chicago Inspector General David Hoffman and Chicago Urban league President Cheryle Jackson. In an interview with Windy City Times that ran in the Sept. 16 issue, Meister said that he felt "almost compelled to jump into this race. There are a number of good people who could have run; unfortunately, they didn't."
Marv Trew
Race: Cook, 9th Subcircuit, "A" vacancy
Web site: VoteTrew.com
The skinny: Trew, a graduate of Western Michigan University and Michigan State University College of law, began her legal career as a criminal defense attorney in Detroit. In Illinois, she has devoted much of her life providing legal services to the poor in Cook County; she is the executive director of the Domestic Violence legal Clinic. She ran for a judgeship more than a decade ago, and narrowly lost.
Kent Dela1
Race: Illinois State Representative (99th District)
Web site: KentDelay.com
The skinny: This son of a retired state engineer is a survivor of two car accidents that have left him partially disabled. In addition, the candidate - who is running to represent Springfield - is a father of two children.
Delay was listed on the hand-out at the Sidetrack gay candidate's night as being among the state's openly gay candidates for office. He did not attend the event.

Subject: Candidates; Gays & lesbians; Local elections; Primaries & caucuses

Location: Cook County Illinois; United States--US

People: Mell, Deborah; Laiacona, Joe; Madigan, Jim

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Guide to the Gays

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 25

Issue: 17

Pages: 6

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2010

Publication date: Jan 27, 2010

Publisher: Windy City Media Grou p

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 432835949

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/guide-gays/docview/432835949/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jan 27, 2010

Last updated: 2024-03-06

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Mary Trew

Author: Davis, Andrew

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mary-trew/docview/432815561/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Thafs the direction my career took. First, I represented peopLe in Detroit who couLdn't afford Lawyers in criminal matters, so I did a Lot of aiminal defense work. Upon moving to Chicago in January of 1991, I started working with an agency caLLed Pro Bono Advocates as a staff attorney. Eventually, I became the executive director of that agency in 1996 and we changed the name in 2005 to the Domestic Violence LegaL Clinic.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=17&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=9&amp;date=2010-01-27&amp;atitle=Mary+Trew&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=17&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=9&amp;date=2010-01-27&amp;atitle=Mary+Trew&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Headnote COOK COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT
Mary Trew has established a Lengthy career helping the poor, most recentLy by being executive director of the Domestic Violence LegaL Clinic. Now, she is running in the 9th JudiciaL Subcircuit, which incLudes the cities of Evanston, NiLes, Skokie, Morton Grove, LincoLnwood, Golf, WiLmette and the north parts of the city of Chicago, such as Rogers Park. The Longtime attorney, who is openLy gay, taLked with Windy City Times about her beginnings, the emotional toLL of her job and her second campaign for a judgeship.
Windy City Times: Could you tell me a little about your background?
Mary Trew: OK - if I can remember back that far. [Laughs] I was born in Detroit, and I grew up in the suburbs of Detroit. I went through coLLege at Western Michigan and Law school at MSU [Michigan State University]. I became interested in law because I was so interested in politics, and because I had this notion I was going to save the world and protect peopLe who couldn't protect themselves.
Thafs the direction my career took. First, I represented peopLe in Detroit who couLdn't afford Lawyers in criminal matters, so I did a Lot of aiminal defense work. Upon moving to Chicago in January of 1991, I started working with an agency caLLed Pro Bono Advocates as a staff attorney. Eventually, I became the executive director of that agency in 1996 and we changed the name in 2005 to the Domestic Violence LegaL Clinic. What we do is represent victims of domestic vioLence who can't afford Lawyers; we don't represent them in the criminal courts but in the domestic-relations courts.
We have a clinic that's housed in the new DV courthouse on Harrison Street. So we do function with the court system in the intake triage area. We heLp victims get orders of protection in the civiL courts as weLL as divorces for those married to their abusers. We have a smaLL staff - seven or eight peopLe, with a Lot of interns. I'm also an adjunct professor at John Marshall, so we have students work in our clinic every semester. They get their feet wet in Litigation, and the clients benefit because there are more hands on deck.
I've actuaLLy wanted to be a judge even more than a Lawyer.
WCT: Why's that?
MT: My temperament is more suited to being a judge - seeing aLL sides of everything. I'm good at resolving disputes; you have to be when you're at an agency. And I just reaLLy enjoy the courtroom.
When I went to EngLand a few years ago, I went to the OLd Bailey [the CentraL Criminal Court building in London]. The courtrooms are so cool, and they stiLL wear the wigs, you know? If I couLd've eaten popcorn there, I wouLd've. [Both laugh.] Here I am on vacation, and I'm back in the courtroom.
My whoLe career is about pub Lie service, and I just want to continue down that path.
WCT: Let me ask you about working at the clinic. How emotionally draining is it? Does it ever get any easier?
MT: It's very emotionaLLy draining - particuLarLy for the attorneys who work directLy with [the clients]. I stiLL practice some. We just did a custody case in December that was extremeLy draining. You're going to be affected by what you hear. It's not for the faint of heart; it takes a certain type of person to do that day in and day out - and the staff does a terrific job.
WCT: Now, regarding elections and campaigning, I understand this isn't your first time at the rodeo, so to speak.
MT: [Laughs] No, I had the Lasso out in 1998. I was the first openLy Lesbian candidate countywide. And in those days - I'm talking Like it was a million years ago - you only needed 500 signatures to get on the ballot; as a result, there were a Lot of peopLe who fUed. There were nine peopLe in my race. I was Lucky enough to win the Lottery and end up on the top of the baLLot. I was not slated by the party; the [person] who was slated was Nicholas Ford, who is a judge now, of course. I came in second, behind Nick Ford. I was a good run, but exhausting.
It's been 12 years, but in the interim I applied to be an associate judge, but I did get on the short List in 2007. But I just keep plugging away.
WCT: What do you feel separates you from the other candidates this time?
MT: What separates me from the other candidates is that I have very high bar ratings. I have the highest [in my group].
There are five men and myseLf. I'm actuaLLy at the end of the complete baLLot. We Like to say, "You're not through until you've voted for Trew." [Both laugh.]
WCT: What is one mistake you've made in the past that you've benefited from?
MT: Thafs such an interesting question. I think it worked out weLL that I didn't make it the Last time [I ran]. I think our agency reaLLy needed me to be around a Little Longer- particuLarLy when we were moving into this new courthouse. Having friends and poLiticaL connections from the first time I ran made it easier to solidify our position in the new DV courthouse. That benefited me and the agency.
WCT: What is your greatest achievement? MT: Besides my wonderful relationship with my partner - and my two weLL-adjusted kitty cats? I think it's probabLy creating and impLementing that cutting-edge LegaL clinic. I hope that'LL serve as a template for LegaL services around the country.
See www.VoteTrew.com.

Subject: Candidates; Judicial elections; Judges & magistrates; Political campaigns

Location: Cook County Illinois; United States--US

People: Trew, Mary

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Mary Trew

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 25

Issue: 17

Pages: 9

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2010

Publication date: Jan 27, 2010

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 432815561

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mary-trew/docview/432815561/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jan 27, 2010

Last updated: 2024-03-06

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

100 AND UNDER Holday Gift Guide

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/100-under-holday-gift-guide/docview/432824900/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: George Michael may have grabbed headlines in recent years for various off-stage antics, but it's still the man's music that draws people to him. Live in London, the first live DVD of Michael's career, showcases 23 songs, including "Faith," "Freedom" and many more. Recorded and filmed at the final two concerts in London's Earls Court arena on Aug. 24-25, these shows marked the end of his 25 Live Tour.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=9&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=9&amp;date=2009-12-02&amp;atitle=100+AND+UNDER+Holday+Gift+Guide&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=9&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=9&amp;date=2009-12-02&amp;atitle=100+AND+UNDER+Holday+Gift+Guide&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: THIS YEAR, WINDY CITY TIMES IS ALL ABOUT THE BENJAMINS AS THE ANNUAL GIFT GUIDE (WHICH RUNS THIS WEEK AND NEXT) EXCLUSIVELY FEATURES ITEMS THAT DO NOT EXCEED $100. LET THE SHOPPING COMMENCE!
Mean green
People who want to do their part to save the environment will enjoy Eco Hatchery's Eco Kits. All kits include energy-saving and conservation products, illustrated instructions, energy-saving tips and an A-Z recycling resources guide. Some of the products included are an energy monitor, water-quality test kit, stainless steel reusable water bottle and a premium eco light bulb. If that's not enough, kit owners can join an online "Eco community."
$50-$97.50; www.ecohatchery.com
By George!
George Michael may have grabbed headlines in recent years for various off-stage antics, but it's still the man's music that draws people to him. Live in London, the first live DVD of Michael's career, showcases 23 songs, including "Faith," "Freedom" and many more. Recorded and filmed at the final two concerts in London's Earls Court arena on Aug. 24-25, these shows marked the end of his 25 Live Tour.
$17.98; www.amazon.com
Soap and faith
Want something sleek and cool that won' t cost an arm and a leg? Then, look no further than the simplehuman sensor soap pump. Using sensor technology to dispense soap touch-free, the pump prevents cross-contamination from dirty or wet hands - and it features a pop-up lid for no-mess refills. Being clean never looked so good.
$30; www.simpleh uman.com
The meal thing
Some people are all about efficiency- down to their lunchboxes. Lunchsense lunchboxes are waterproof, easy to open and quick to clean. Each lunchbox features a set of well-constructed plastic containers that fit neatly together, and the lunchbox itself doubles as a fold-out placemat. Your kid will be the envy of the playground.
$35-$44; www.funchsense.com
Cash and carry
Here's another argument that looking stylish doesn't have to be expensive. The Marc wallet is made of cowhide that is studded with steel grommets. Moreover, it has a double cash compartment and two organized sides.
$32; www.bedsfu.com
Throw down
Rocksteady pillows users a pretty unique concept-talking old concert tshirs andd converting them into pre-made or customized throw pillows. Whitney Houston? Yes! Erasure? Yes! Hillary Duff? You might be on your own.
$35-$40; www.RocksteadyPilows.etsy.com
Sweet dreams
The Cholive Company has the perfect gift that's a splurge for your taste buds, not your wallet. Gift packages of cocktail chocolates known as Cholives® and Chruffles®, wine-pairing truffles, are designed to pair with your favorite beverage or enjoyed as a little luxurious treat. Also, for those watching their girlish figures, Cholives are less than 50 calories each.
$5.95-$7.95; www.thecholive.com
Hold on
The idox Traveler is designed to keep your iPod Nano, iPod Touch or iPhone stationary and upright to more easily enjoy videos. Web content, speakerphone calls, photos or podcasts- like Windy City Queercast. Simply snap your device into the Traveler; rubber feet on the bottom of the stand will keep it from slipping. Also, you won't look like a total fool trying to prop your iPod Touch against something.
$24.95-534.95; www.idox360.com
New York, New York
Fight choreographer Andrew, poet Noel and personal trainer Petr are just a few of the treats in Sexy in the City, a 2010 calendar that features hunky models against various New York City backdrops. You mighteven want to look at the pics while listening to Alicia Keys and Jay-Z's instant-classic "Empire State of Mind" to get the full effect. By the way, a portion of the net proceeds will benefit Beauty Cares, which helps domestic-violence survivors.
$19.95; www.SexyInTheCityCalendar.com Listen up
This holiday season, iFrogz has something for everyone - including custom headphones for your music-loverand iPhone- and BlackBerrycompatible earbuds with a built-in microphone foryourfavorite techie, iFrogz currently has three styles of completely customizable headphones. Customizable components include headband, base, side piece, speaker piece, cushions and hinge piece (depending on earphone model); the options make it possible to create more than 200,000 unique pairs of headphones- so you can definitely make your own statement, even if you listen to what everyone else likes.
$19.99-549.99; www.ifrogz.com
Let's chill
The ravi Instant Wine Refresher will likely become an indispensible item for anyone who throws dinner parties. The secret of this revolutionary cooler is that instead of chilling the entire bottle, the ravi cools the wine itself. As the wine flows through the ravi, its temperature instantly drops by an average of 1 2 degrees Fahrenheit. Cool.
$39.95; www.Rav/Solution.com
Batt, man
If you're looking for intriguing homefurnishings items, try Hazelnut New Orleans, owned by openly gay Mad Men co-star Bryan Batt and his life/business partner, Tom Cianfichi. Among the items are glass lamps; pewter moose salt and pepper shakers; and the store's signature candle, which has a pear-and-rhubarb scent.
$32-$88; www.HazelnutNewOrleans.com
All wet
A timely twist in eco-design, the Bedol Water-Powered Alarm Clock is a truly unique eco-friendly gift offering for the holidays. A perfect green-minded gift, Bedol's sustainable design has an intriguing practical function - keeping perfect time without batteries. It even has an alarm. You just add fresh water to the clock's tank to make it work. Electrodes harvest energy from the water, powering the clock for as long as four weeks. There's no word, however, on if it's better to use Evian or tap.
$16; www.bedolwhatsnext.com
Star power
Star Wars The Clone Wars: The Complete Season One takes place immediately after the events of Star Wars-Episode II: Attack of the Clones. The 22-episode series follows Obi-Wan Kenobi and his apprentice, Anakin Skywalker, and introduces us to some new characters such as Ahsoka Tano, a girl Jedi knight. Your niece or nephew will never stop loving you, I suspect.
$44.95; www.amazon.com
Tea time
For a beverage that's a little different, consider Firefly Vodka- which is infused with sweet tea. And the roots of this vodka are definitely Southern: Firefly was first created at the Firefly Distillery on Wadmalaw Island, S.C. In addition, you can mix it up; there are original, peach, raspberry, lemon and mint-flavored versions.
$17.99; www.fireflyvodka.com and www.superwinewarehouse.com
Skin tight
According to its Web site. Zia Daily Moisture Screen SPF 15 "simplifies your life with this lightweight complex that moisturizes as it protects." Well, I'm for anything that makes my life easier. The product contains aloe and rice bran oil, which provide light, non-greasy moisture to soften and nourish skin. Moreover, Neil Patrick Harris is reportedly a big fan - and he certainly looks, urn, supple.
$20.95; www.ztnatural.com
Local color
Artist Steve Ohlrich is selling highquality, original art reproductions of his acclaimed 2002 "Chicago Composition" poster. It is a signed reproduction of a commissioned, 4' ? 5' oil painting of the City of Chicago. Every time I look at it, I see something I'd previously missed.
$34, including shipping; www.steveohlrich.com
Roasted chestnuts
Chritopher Anthony Toasty Boys are un-dies for those who definitely want to stay warm during the Chicago winter. How-ever, these items (from Oak Lawn-based Anthony) don't just keep you toasty-the thermal undies also help to shape, if you know what I mean.
$24; www.christopheranthony.net

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: 100 AND UNDER Holday Gift Guide

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 25

Issue: 9

Pages: 9-11

Number of pages: 3

Publication year: 2009

Publication date: Dec 2, 2009

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 432824900

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/100-under-holday-gift-guide/docview/432824900/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Dec 2, 2009

Last updated: 2024-03-06

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Letter

Author: Zuley, Bob

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/letter/docview/432824509/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "Don't Ask, Don't TeLL" (DADT) has rightfully come under attack again. The American Medical Association recentLy voted to oppose DADT, saying the poLicy of forcing gay service members to keep their sexual orientation a secret from their physicians has a chiLLing effect on communication and is a bad Law. These conclusions are neither new nor unexpected.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=9&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2009-12-02&amp;atitle=Letter&amp;au=Zuley%2C+Bob&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=9&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2009-12-02&amp;atitle=Letter&amp;au=Zuley%2C+Bob&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Banning the ban
"Don't Ask, Don't TeLL" (DADT) has rightfully come under attack again. The American Medical Association recentLy voted to oppose DADT, saying the poLicy of forcing gay service members to keep their sexual orientation a secret from their physicians has a chiLLing effect on communication and is a bad Law. These conclusions are neither new nor unexpected.
The rationale of prohibiting gays from serving in our miLitary forces has been consistentLy contradicted by at least three studies commissioned by the U.S. Department of Defense itself. The Crittenden Report (1957) concluded that homosexual service members did not pose a greater security risk than heterosexual personneL. According to the report, inteLLigence officers sometimes considered heterosexuaL relations more of a security threat than homosexual conduct.
The prohibition, persecution and prosecution of gays in our miLitary forces are increasingly indefensibLe in Light of a new report by education and military Leaders. An alarming 75 percent of Americans ages 17 to 24 would not qualify for military service because they are physically unfit, have criminal records, or have not finished high school.
Of course, DADT is attributabLe to vioLence as weLL, but not on Ly toward gay and Lesbian miLitary members. RecentLy, a Chicago man was charged with murdering his wife. WhiLe the crime was portrayed as domestic vioLence involving insurance money, DADT p Lay ed a rale as weLL. When the wife reportedLy discovered her husband was secretly engaged in MSM activities and threatened divorce, the husband understood that his miLitary career and pension were endangered and chose murder in response.
It's time to end DADT and aLLow gays and Lesbians to openly serve in our miLitary forces.
AuthorAffiliation - Bob Zuley, U.S. Army veteran

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Sexual orientation; Bans; Violence

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Letter

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 25

Issue: 9

Pages: 8

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2009

Publication date: Dec 2, 2009

Section: VIEWPOINTS

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Letter

ProQuest document ID: 432824509

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/letter/docview/432824509/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Dec 2, 2009

Last updated: 2024-03-06

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

County board candidates vie for gay vote

Author: Streit, Meghan

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/county-board-candidates-vie-gay-vote/docview/432806159/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: When asked how he'd ensure equitable distribution of funding among Cook County communities to treat and prevent STIs, O'[Brien] said he would Look to organizations Like Affinity and AIDS Foundation of Chicago for guidance. "What we need to do in county government is work with community groups," he said.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=9&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2009-12-02&amp;atitle=County+board+candidates+vie+for+gay+vote&amp;au=Streit%2C+Meghan&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=9&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2009-12-02&amp;atitle=County+board+candidates+vie+for+gay+vote&amp;au=Streit%2C+Meghan&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Three of the four candidates for Cook County Board president spoke to the LGBTQ community Nov. 29 at a forum hosted by the Social Justice Alliance of Affinity Community Services, which includes Affinity, Coalition for Justice and Respect, Windy City Black LGBT Pride and Youth Pride Services.
Cook County Circuit Court Clerk Dorothy Brown, Chicago Alderman Toni PreckwinkLe and Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago President Terranee O'Brien attended. Current Cook County President Todd Stroger was absent, although forum organizers said he was expected to be there. Affinity Executive Director Kirn Hunt said she had not received any word from Stroge^s office about why he failed to show up as planned.
U.S. Rep. Danny Davis, D-7th, who recently dropped out of the race for county board president, moderated the discussion.
Brown, PreckwinkLe and O'Brien answered questions about their views on the controversial Cook County sa Les tax; funding to treat and prevent sexuaLLy transmitted infections (STIs); violence against LGBTQ people; and their goals for their first 90 days in office.
Brown said she would work to "strategica LLy Lower the county's sales tax, while replacing it with new revenue and Lower expenses." She said hiring collection agencies and entering into advertising contracts might be solutions to generate new revenue.
"We will work on finding revenue without raising taxes," Brown said.
PreckwinkLe said she also supports an elimination "over time" of Stroge^s penny-on-thedoLlar sa Les tax increase. She spoke out strong Ly in favor of making permanent the independent board that was created Last year to oversee the Cook County HeaLth & Hospitals System.
"The independent governance board of the heaLthcare system has aLready proven itseLf," PreckwinkLe said, pointing to cost savings since the board was created.
O'Brien took a more aggressive stance on the saLes tax than his opponents. "The first thing I would do is repeaL the 1 percent saLes tax increase," he said.
O'Brien said the higher saLes tax has driven businesses out of the county and taken jobs away from residents. He also said he wo u Ld consider aLternative sentencing for non-vioLent offenders Like home confinement and eLectronic monitoring to cut costs and reduce the population at Cook County Jail.
When asked how he'd ensure equitable distribution of funding among Cook County communities to treat and prevent STIs, O'Brien said he would Look to organizations Like Affinity and AIDS Foundation of Chicago for guidance. "What we need to do in county government is work with community groups," he said.
O'Brien also said he'd work to improve medicaL biLL coLLections and wo u Ld pursue state and federaL grants for heaLth care.
Brown said she would "want to make sure resources are properLy aLLocated to the communities that need them most." She said she issued her own executive order against discrimination at the cLerk's office and pointed out that she has received awards from African-American and LGBTQ community groups.
"I have a history of heLping in this area and I wiLL continue to do that," she said.
On the broader issue of county heaLth care. Brown said she would strive to work closeLy with the Department of PubLic HeaLth. She also said she would try to increase funding for medical testing, referrals and prevention.
Tm going to create a grants and research department to make sure we're going after every grant that is available," Brown said.
PreckwinkLe said she would emphasize prevention of STIs, particularly in the African-American community. "STIs aren't prevaLent in equaL proportion among the different ethnic groups in Chicago," she said.
She also applauded Cook County's Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center, and said she would try to ensure the center continues to receive adequate funding.
ALL three candidates said they would work to prevent violence against LGBTQ peopLe.
Brown said she would form an advisory committee of community groups to solicit advice on curtaiLing vioLence against LGBTQ peopLe. She said hate crimes based on sexuaL orientation, Like domestic vioLence, can be reduced with education and training for Law enforcement.
"We have to raise awareness, just Like with domestic vioLence - Law enforcement didn't take that seriously a few years ago," Brown said.
O'Brien said that first we have to encourage LGBTQ victims to report attacks. "Then we have to work with the State's Attorney to send the message that we wiLL not toLerate hate crimes," he said.
PreckwinkLe similarly emphasized the importance of "vigorous" prosecution of hate crimes. But, she added that she wo u Ld use her post as Cook County board president to raise awareness about violence and discrimination against LGBTQ peopLe.
"The president of the Cook County board should use the position as a puLpit to ... stand up for equaLity for aLL of our citizens," she said.
PreckwinkLe also said she is the only candidate for county board president who supports the Legalization of same-sex marriage. Brown and O'Brien both said they support civil unions.

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Legislators; Meetings; Sexually transmitted diseases--STD; Presidents; Revenue; Sales taxes

Business indexing term: Subject: Revenue Sales taxes

Location: Cook County Illinois; United States--US

People: Brown, Dorothy A; Preckwinkle, Toni; O Brien, Terrence

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: County board candidates vie for gay vote

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 25

Issue: 9

Pages: 6

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2009

Publication date: Dec 2, 2009

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 432806159

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/county-board-candidates-vie-gay-vote/docview/432806159/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Dec 2, 2009

Last updated: 2024-03-06

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

LGBTs and cyberstalking

Author: Streit, Meghan

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lgbts-cyberstalking/docview/432801509/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "If a person experiences some postings about them on MySpace or Facebook, they often don't have a Lot of resources," [Rebecca Dreke] explained. "Law enforcement wiLL say, 'Was there a threat, and was there a previous relationship?'"

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=7&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2009-11-18&amp;atitle=LGBTs+and+cyberstalking&amp;au=Streit%2C+Meghan&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=7&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2009-11-18&amp;atitle=LGBTs+and+cyberstalking&amp;au=Streit%2C+Meghan&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Cyberbullying among adolescents and teens has grabbed headlines lately, but using technology to harass or staLk someone is a problem in the aduLt worLd as well.
Cyberharassment or cyberstalking can take many forms. A disgruntled employee could write a negative, and possibly untrue, bLog post about you, a jilted ex-lover could bombard you with threatening e-mails, or someone you barely know could use the web to discover personal information about you.
Rebecca Dreke, a senior program associate at the Stalking Resource Center in Washington DC, said that as social networking sites become increasingly ubiquitous is our daily lives, the creation of fake MySpace or Facebook profiles with the intent to harm someone's reputation is fast becoming one of the most common methods of cyberstalkers.
Just Like in-person or phone harassment, Dreke said cyberstalking victims can suffer real psychological stress and fears about personal safety.
"It can be so damaging to people's reputations, and to have someone targeting you can be really hurtful and frightening," she said. "Unfortunately, with the use of technoLogy to stalk, Laws sometimes aren't keeping up with ways stalkers are doing these things."
Illinois' stalking law was amended last year to include cyberstalking. The statute defines cyberstaLking as "knowingly and without lawful justification, on at Least two separate occasions, harassing another person through the use of electronic communication." It also covers cases in which someone creates or maintains a Web page that "contains statements harassing another person."
However, as with traditional stalking laws, the cyberstalking law stipulates that the communication must include an actual threat.
"If a person experiences some postings about them on MySpace or Facebook, they often don't have a Lot of resources," Dreke explained. "Law enforcement wiLL say, 'Was there a threat, and was there a previous relationship?'"
Blogs present a legal challenge as well, Dreke said. If a blogger uses his or her blog to disclose someone else's personal information or writes things intended to damage that person's reputation, the case may be difficult to prosecute.
'That is one of the biggest questions, where a lot of privacy issues butt up against civil rights and freedom of speech," Dreke said. "What a lot of places have said is if there's not a direct threat, anybody can say whatever they want."
Nevertheless, Dreke encourages peopLe to contact law enforcement if they believe they are being harassed or staLked online. Most importantly, she cautions peopLe to "document, document, document." Print out e-mails, save screen shots of harassing web pages, take pictures of text messages, and compile any other evidence that "establishes a pattern of behavior."
Dreke said an additional obstacle for LGBT people who are being staLked by a former romantic interest is the fear that law enforcement may not be receptive. If that is the case, Dreke suggested first contacting a local women's center or gay and lesbian advocacy group.
Leslie Landis, a spokeswoman for the City of Chicago Mayor's Office on Domestic Violence, has seen an increase in the Internet and social networking sites being used to harass in domestic violence cases.
While the available legal remedies vary by case, landis said people should stillinvolve local law enforcement if they feel unsafe.
"If you can show ifs a pattern of harassment, intended to cause emotionaL stress, I wouldn't dissuade people form trying to make contact with the police, because if things escalate, you have that record," landis said. "PeopLe shouldn't have to be sure that what they are experience is stalking."
One area in which a victim of cyber harassment may have some Legal recourse is if a harasser reveals another person's HIV status, online or otherwise. Ann Fisher, executive director of AIDS LegaL Council of Chicago, said disclosure of another person's HIV status is prohibited by Illinois' AIDS Confidentiality Act. Fisher said her organization has been contacted by peopLe who have been harassed by someone else revealing their HIV status online.
"We have been successful in some cases, and our normal strategy is to have peopLe contact the Internet service provider," she said.
In one successful case, AIDS Legal Council helped two refugees from Africa who had visited a self-identified faith healer, who later posted the men's pictures on his business web site and claimed he had cured them of AIDS.
In that instance, Fisher said AIDS Legal Council contacted the Internet service provider and were abLe to Legally prohibit the faith heaLer from continuing to maintain his business web site.
People who disclose another person's HIV status can be fined up to $10,000, according to Johnathan Briggs, spokesman for AIDS Foundation of Chicago.
"As social media allows people to become content producers, everybody is their own little publishing house and not everyone is trained on how to avoided libel and defamation," he said. "PeopLe are basically creating problems for themselves."

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Stalking; Reputations; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: LGBTs and cyberstalking

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 25

Issue: 7

Pages: 1,6

Number of pages: 2

Publication year: 2009

Publication date: Nov 18, 2009

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 432801509

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lgbts-cyberstalking/docview/432801509/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Nov 18, 2009

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Center's domestic-violence safety campaign in gear

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/centers-domestic-violence-safety-campaign-gear/docview/432802312/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: For more information about Safer Dating Online, Safer Hook-Ups OnLine, Sexual VioLence Tips, Street Safety Tips and Trans Dating Tips visit the Center's Anti-VioLence Project, pLease visit www.centeronhalsted.org, click on Programs and then the Anti-VioLence...

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=2&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2009-10-14&amp;atitle=Center%27s+domestic-violence+safety+campaign+in+gear&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=2&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2009-10-14&amp;atitle=Center%27s+domestic-violence+safety+campaign+in+gear&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: As October is Domestic Violence Awareness Month and there is a definite need for onLine safety awareness, Center on HaLsted is in the midst of a 16-week onLine domestic-vioLence awareness campaign pLaced mostLy with LGBT media Web sites.
One goaL of the campaign is to help peopLe identify possibLe signs of domestic vioLence in their onLine relationships and drive those in question to the Center's Anti-VioLence Project's 24-hour crisis line (773-871-CARE or 2273).
For more information about Safer Dating Online, Safer Hook-Ups OnLine, Sexual VioLence Tips, Street Safety Tips and Trans Dating Tips visit the Center's Anti-VioLence Project, pLease visit www.centeronhalsted.org, click on Programs and then the Anti-VioLence Program link and cLick PDF Documents.

Subject: Domestic violence; Safety; Campaigns; Personal relationships; Internet

Company / organization: Name: Center on Halsted; NAICS: 624110

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Center's domestic-violence safety campaign in gear

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 25

Issue: 2

Pages: 8

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2009

Publication date: Oct 14, 2009

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 432802312

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/centers-domestic-violence-safety-campaign-gear/docview/432802312/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 14, 2009

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Groups speak on healthcare reform

Author: Rehwinkel, Chasse

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/groups-speak-on-healthcare-reform/docview/432803026/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "The way our system is set up the insurance companies are legally allowed to discriminate against people with certain types of illnesses, such as HIV," stated one AFC leader. "HIV/AIDS groups have a significant role in the fight for healthcare reform. We really have an opportunity here to determine how those living with AIDS get access to healthcare as well as the opportunity to secure preventative care for all American citizens."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=1&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=5&amp;date=2009-10-07&amp;atitle=Groups+speak+on+healthcare+reform&amp;au=Rehwinkel%2C+Chasse&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=25&amp;issue=1&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=5&amp;date=2009-10-07&amp;atitle=Groups+speak+on+healthcare+reform&amp;au=Rehwinkel%2C+Chasse&amp;id=doi:

Full text: In response to the U.S. Senate Finance Committee's current debate over a national healthcare reform bill, the AIDS Foundation of Chicago (AFC), the Illinois Public Health Association and the Health Care for America Now held an informational teleconference Oct. 2 to explain the need for immediate healthcare reform.
According to speakers from AFC, approximately 47 million Americans are currently living without an effective healthcare option and that within the AIDS community nearly half of all those living with HIV/AIDS do not have adequate coverage in order to remain healthy.
"The way our system is set up the insurance companies are legally allowed to discriminate against people with certain types of illnesses, such as HIV," stated one AFC leader. "HIV/AIDS groups have a significant role in the fight for healthcare reform. We really have an opportunity here to determine how those living with AIDS get access to healthcare as well as the opportunity to secure preventative care for all American citizens."
According to experts who spoke at the teleconference, comprehensive healthcare reform, meaning a total reworking of the American healthcare system to include a public insurance option, would "increase access to consistent, high-quality, affordable, and comprehensive care for HIV and other health concerns" and increase the overall life expectancy of those living with HIV/AIDS "vastly."
'This is a critical time for healthcare reform in the United States," stated the Illinois director of Health Care for America Now, John Gaudette. "We are hearing now things like spousal abuse is a preexisting condition for some women or that women of childbearing age have a preexisting condition for child birth; we are seeing an uncontrolled abuse of the system by insurance companies and they can do this because of the millions they spend on lobbyists. However, people should know that we are working hard to change this and that in the 100 year battle over healthcare reform this is the closest we have ever gotten to complete change."

Subject: Health care policy; Bills; Human immunodeficiency virus--HIV; Teleconferencing; Reforms

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: AIDS Foundation of Chicago; NAICS: 813212

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Groups speak on healthcare reform

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 25

Issue: 1

Pages: 5

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2009

Publication date: Oct 7, 2009

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 432803026

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/groups-speak-on-healthcare-reform/docview/432803026/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 7, 2009

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Steinem speaks

Author: Dewey, Charlsie

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/steinem-speaks/docview/432801563/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: The scheduled speaker, Dr. Maya Angelou, was unable to attend the event due to medical reasons, leaving a bittersweet feeling as attendees arrived to hear the news that feminist icon Gloría Steinern had agreed to take the stage instead.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=51&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2009-09-23&amp;atitle=Steinem+speaks&amp;au=Dewey%2C+Charlsie&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=51&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2009-09-23&amp;atitle=Steinem+speaks&amp;au=Dewey%2C+Charlsie&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Over 2,000 people gathered at the Hyatt Regency Chicago, 151 E. Wacker, on Sept. 17 to celebrate and support the Chicago Foundation for Women at its annual luncheon. The event, now in its 24th year, highlighted the many achievements the organization and its grantees have garnered as well as reiterating the need for funding for future endeavors.
The scheduled speaker, Dr. Maya Angelou, was unable to attend the event due to medical reasons, leaving a bittersweet feeling as attendees arrived to hear the news that feminist icon Gloría Steinern had agreed to take the stage instead. Steinern, who turned 75 earlier this year, addressed the eager crowd for more than 30 minutes discussing her birthday wish list, which includes an end to domestic violence; greater inclusion of positive news reporting in the numerous media outlets; a desire to see newsstands filled with erotica instead of pornography; the participation of more men in child care; and allocating the the military budget to child care and schools. Regarding the LGBT community, she said, "I want all grown-ups to be able to get married." Text by Charlsie Dewey and photos by Kat Fitzgerald (MysticImagesPhotography.com) with a video of the event (and many more photos) online inline I at www.windycitymediagroup.com

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Steinem speaks

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 24

Issue: 51

Pages: 6

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2009

Publication date: Sep 23, 2009

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 432801563

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/steinem-speaks/docview/432801563/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Sep 23, 2009

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

NATIONAL ROUNDUP

Author: Davis, Andrew

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/national-roundup/docview/432806860/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: At the U.S. Open tennis tournament, a man was arrested after he ran onto the court at Arthur Ashe Stadium to kiss Spanish player Rafael Nadal after the athLete's win over Frenchman GaeL MonfiLs Sept. 8, according to CBSSports.com. The fan - Noam U. Aorta of Queens, N.Y. - was arrested for interfering with a sporting event, and wiLL be charged with trespassing. NadaL said, "For me, it wasn't a problem. The guy was reaLLy nice. He said, 'I Love you,' and he kissed me."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=50&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=4&amp;date=2009-09-16&amp;atitle=NATIONAL+ROUNDUP&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=50&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=4&amp;date=2009-09-16&amp;atitle=NATIONAL+ROUNDUP&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Melissa Sue Robinson, a transwoman, is running for mayor of Nampa, Idaho, according to a PinkNews.co.uk item. So far, Robinson has said, this campaign has been calm - unlike her mayoral runs in Lansing, Mich., which she said involved a lot of transphobia. Robinson is running against incumbent Mayor Tom Dale; the election is in November.
James Reid, a gay man, has alleged that park officers harassed him and a male friend at the Iwo Jima Memorial in Arlington, Va., according to the Washington Blade. Reid said that he and his friend were talking on a bench for approximately 45 minutes and were apprehended by the officers allegedly because they Left the park seven minutes after the closing time of midnight. One officer said that police were patrolling the park because of complaints that men were committing "Lewd acts" there.
Lambda Legal has urged the U.S. government to end a ban on foreign HIV-positive individuals from traveling to the country or living in it, according to PinkNews.co.uk. The ban was enforced in 1987 and, in 2008, President George W. Bush signed the President's Emergency PLan for AIDS Relief Act (PEPFAR), which allowed poz individuals to enter the U.S. However, seropositive people still cannot enter untilthe Department of Health and Human Services figures out what to do next.
In Texas, Fort Worth gay bar Stampede was severely damaged by a fire Sept. 10, according to a Dallas Voice item. Lt. Kent Worley of the Fort Worth Fire Department said that he did not believe that arson was involved in the fire, which caused approximately $60,000 in damage. Worley said the fire is probabLy electrical in origin because it started in an area with severaL plugs.
Former Miami, Fla., TV anchorman Charles Perez - who was fired from his station recentLy after filed a discrimination complaint against it - will marry boyfriend Keith Rinehard Sept. 27 in Connecticut, according to an On Top Magazine item. In his complaint, Perez contends that he was let go after his private life became public following allegations of domestic abuse against an ex-partner.
Almost half of military members released under "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" (DADT) in fiscal year 2008 were non-white, according to a reLease from Servicemembers United. Data obtained from the Department of Defense showed out of 619 DADT discharges, 279 (just over 45 percent) were from raciaL- and gender- minority groups. Women also really were affected; while they make up about 15 percent of the military, females comprised 34 percent of those discharged.
At the U.S. Open tennis tournament, a man was arrested after he ran onto the court at Arthur Ashe Stadium to kiss Spanish player Rafael Nadal after the athLete's win over Frenchman GaeL MonfiLs Sept. 8, according to CBSSports.com. The fan - Noam U. Aorta of Queens, N.Y. - was arrested for interfering with a sporting event, and wiLL be charged with trespassing. NadaL said, "For me, it wasn't a problem. The guy was reaLLy nice. He said, 'I Love you,' and he kissed me."

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: NATIONAL ROUNDUP

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 24

Issue: 50

Pages: 4

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2009

Publication date: Sep 16, 2009

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 432806860

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/national-roundup/docview/432806860/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Sep 16, 2009

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

BILLY MASTERS

Author: Masters, Billy

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/billy-masters/docview/432810161/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: You may remember Charles Perez from the TV show "American Journal" or the cleverly-named talk show "The Charles Perez Show" You may even recall him as Norm Korpi's love interest on the first season of "The Real World" More recently, he's been an anchor of the evening news at the ABC affiliate in Miami. Then Perez was moved to the weekend news - something that, admittedly, happens to people all the time.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=46&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=20&amp;date=2009-08-19&amp;atitle=BILLY+MASTERS&amp;au=Masters%2C+Billy&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=46&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=20&amp;date=2009-08-19&amp;atitle=BILLY+MASTERS&amp;au=Masters%2C+Billy&amp;id=doi:

Full text: "I want the Jonas Brothers to perform at my wedding... to one of them!" - Russell Brand, who will get the chance to get down on one knee (or both) when he hosts the MTV Video Music Awards Sept 13.
You may remember Charles Perez from the TV show "American Journal" or the cleverly-named talk show "The Charles Perez Show" You may even recall him as Norm Korpi's love interest on the first season of "The Real World" More recently, he's been an anchor of the evening news at the ABC affiliate in Miami. Then Perez was moved to the weekend news - something that, admittedly, happens to people all the time. However, Chucky felt he was being targeted for "becoming too gay", and filed a complaint with the MiamiDade County Equal Opportunity Board. Intriguingly, the guy who changed Charles' position at the station brought up a good point: "As a gay man myself, I can safely say the station does not discriminate against gay people." Perez is going forward with a multimi Ilion dollar lawsuit against the station. Here's where it gets good: back in March, he was in therapy with a now-exboyfriend (both Perez and the ex have since filed petitions against each other with the court for orders of protection against domestic violence). The ex sent out an e-mail to everyone in Charles' address book - including his co-workers - stating that Perez told the therapist that he needed to work through some "gender identity issues"! Oh my! Will someone at Logo give this guy a reality show ...fast.
On the flip side, a judge just ruled that be- ing called gay ain't such a bad thing. You may recall that Anna Nicole Smith's lawyer, Howard K. Stern, is suing Rita Cosby over 19 libelous statements in her bio, Blonde Ambition. Several of those statements surrounded Stern and Larry Birkhead allegedly engaging in oral sex at an L.A. party (a party I apparently missed). US District Judge Denny Chin ruled that the defamation trial could proceed on 11 of the counts. Of the other eight, Chin stated, "I respectfully disagree that the existence of this continued prejudice leads to the conclusion that there is a widespread view of gays and lesbians as contemptible and disgraceful." In other words, being called gay is not defamation. I could have told him that! I was struck by another of Chin's statements: "A reasonable jury could find that engaging in oral sex at a party is shameful or contemptible, and the fact that this conduct may not be illegal does not alter this conclusion." If I were Rita, I'd try for an all-gay jury.
Sexy Jack Mackenroth from "Project Runway" made quite a few waves as a swimmer at the World Outgames in Copenhagen. The sexy stud took two gold medals, four silvers, and two bronze. "I was really not expecting to win medals in all eight of my events," says the humble hunk. Equally impressive is how good he looks in his Speedo. We also have pics of him out of it, and he's got nothing to be modest about! See all at BillyMasters.com.
Usually former Hollywood hunks are completely oblivious to their ever-expanding waistline. But not Ashton Kutcher. He did an action film called "Personal Effects" which required him to look a bit heavier. Shortly thereafter, he was scheduled to shoot "Spread", that flick with Anne Heche on the prowl for a young-ish buck. He knew it would require significant nudity (thus making it at least not totally unwatchable), so what did he do? "I had to lose like 10 pounds and stop eating and take care of myself. I really cut back to a meal a day. I was probably down to 175 pounds." Bear in mind he's 6'2''. Not bad.
It seems nary a week can go by without my mentioning Channing Tatum. Once he was a hot young model who had no trouble posing nude. Then he got into movies. Then he got into food. Then he got "GQ" to invest a small fortune into airbrushing abs on his physique. Now a video has surfaced showing the 18-year-old "Chan Crawford" as a Stripperin an all-male revue in Florida called "Male Encounter" which, sadly, catered to the ladies. It ended up being a good career move. At one of the shows, a female casting director took a shine to him and put him in Ricky Martin... or, rather, Ricky's video "She Bangs". And she certainly does in this video, which we'll happily post on BillyMasters.com - along with a full nude pic, just to keep you interested.
This week's "Ask Billy" question comes from Walter in the Windy City: "You never mention Big Brother. Do you watch the show? Lots of hot guys there, and Fm sure someone dropped trou on the Showtime feed. Right?"
You're right on both counts - I don't watch it and there has been nudity. For some reason, this show routinely casts the most loathsome people and, while I like to think I have a certain tolerance for loathsome people, "Big Brother" simply catapults past what I consider tolerable. That said, you may recall that Jessie (the guy from last year who inexplicably is back this year) did some "erotic modeling" which showed all his assets. Because we're in summer reruns (and since you asked), I'm happy to revisit those pics. Then there's Branden, who I thought looked familiar. He was a minor player on "Dante's Cove" - a show full of minor players! However, what isn't minor is Branden's dick - yes, he's shown it and it's quite lengthy. All of the above can be found on the only site worth checking out on the Web - BillyMasters.com.
When Ricky's hiring male strippers ... again, it's definitely time to end yet another column. I finally made it down to Provincetown this season, and I'll give you a full report next week. Although summer is fast drawing to a close, it's still pretty steamy on www.BillyMasters.com, the site where people always seem to be showing skin. For my personal attention, reach out and touch me at Billy@BillyMasters.com and I promise to get back to you before Jessie's big brother enters Braden's cove! Until next time, remember, one man's filth is another man's bible.
Sidebar Jack's back - although he was wearing a lot less clothing at the Outgames.

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: BILLY MASTERS

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 24

Issue: 46

Pages: 20

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2009

Publication date: Aug 19, 2009

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 432810161

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/billy-masters/docview/432810161/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Aug 19, 2009

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Presenters look at stopping violence

Author: Davis, Andrew

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/presenters-look-at-stopping-violence/docview/432802065/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [Molly Herrmann] discussed strategies for different levels, with the end goal being gradual evolution toward community ownership of the issue of IPV. For example, with level 2 (defined as "denial/resistance"), tactics include one-on-one visits, the discussion of descriptive local incidents related to the issue and the presentation of information to local community groups.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=46&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=7&amp;date=2009-08-19&amp;atitle=Presenters+look+at+stopping+violence&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=46&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=7&amp;date=2009-08-19&amp;atitle=Presenters+look+at+stopping+violence&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Headnote HEALTH SUMMIT
The annual LGBTI Health Summit continued Aug. 15 with workshops covering a wide variety of topics, including "LGBTI Cancer 101" and "The Future is Fluid - New Tools to Negotiate Pleasure and Risk."
Another workshop that took place was "Moving Queer Communities to Take Action to Stop Violence." During this forum, advocates in Chicago and Wisconsin discussed approaches to assessing communities' readiness regarding interpersonal and relationship violence in LGBT relationships.
Gary Hollander, executive director of the LGBT group Diverse and Resilient, and Molly Herrmann, contract manager for the Wisconsin Department of Health Services, presented a survey conducted in different areas of Wisconsin (Chippewa Valley, Fox Valley, Madison and Milwaukee) regarding intimate partner violence (IPV). The study resulted from surveys taken at various Pride events, among other venues. Results included that 22 percent of respondents were hit by a boyfriend or girlfriend within the past 12 months.
For the community-readiness survey, the surveyors considered six factors: community efforts, community knowledge of efforts, leadership, community climate, community knowledge of the issue and resources related to the issue. Respondents were rated on a scale of one to nine, ranging from "no awareness" to "high level of community ownership," a level Herrmann said was "almost unattainable."
The results showed that the overall ratings for the four areas was a 3, although there was some variation. (For example, gay men in the Fox Valley scored a 2 and lesbians in Madison rated a 4.)
Herrmann discussed strategies for different levels, with the end goal being gradual evolution toward community ownership of the issue of IPV. For example, with level 2 (defined as "denial/resistance"), tactics include one-on-one visits, the discussion of descriptive local incidents related to the issue and the presentation of information to local community groups. For level 3 ("vague awareness"), strategies involve the posting of flyers and billboards as well as reaching out to unrelated community groups. Lastly, for level 4 ("pre-planning"), plans involved reaching out to the community even more directly, such as investing local leaders in the cause and conducting focus groups.
Ann Russo, an associate professor at DePaul University, and Michelle VanNatta, director of the criminology project at Dominican University, presented the report "Communities Engaged in Resisting Violence," a look at a growing movement in Chicago of community-based initiatives aimed an eliminating violence against women. Russo and VanNatta also talked about community engagement and accountability; limits on mainstream approaches to anti-violence work; and strategies for community engagement.
As for limitations, they included what Russo and VanNatta said is an over-reliance on the criminal legal system (with VanNatta saying, "Only 1 percent of violators end up in the system, anyway") as well as a reliance on state funding. Regarding the latter item, the presenters said that not only do government dollars often come with strings attached, but that "the well is drying up."
Read more about both of these presentations - including specifics about research and imaginative solutions - online at www. WindyCityMediaGroup.com.
Also, be sure to check upcoming issues of Windy City Times for more about the workshops at the 2009 National LGBTI Health Summit.

Subject: Conferences; Gays & lesbians; Health; Violence; Crime prevention; Workshops

Business indexing term: Subject: Workshops

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Presenters look at stopping violence

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 24

Issue: 46

Pages: 7

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2009

Publication date: Aug 19, 2009

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 432802065

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/presenters-look-at-stopping-violence/docview/432802065/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Aug 19, 2009

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Health summit Aug. 14-18

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/health-summit-aug-14-18/docview/432803972/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Organizers of the 2009 National LGBTI Health Summit announced that, in collaboration with the Bisexual Health Summit, close to 100 workshops, plenaries and town halls will be offered at this year's event.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=41&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=7&amp;date=2009-07-15&amp;atitle=Health+summit+Aug.+14-18&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=41&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=7&amp;date=2009-07-15&amp;atitle=Health+summit+Aug.+14-18&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Organizers of the 2009 National LGBTI Health Summit announced that, in collaboration with the Bisexual Health Summit, close to 100 workshops, plenaries and town halls will be offered at this year's event. An array of topics will be covered, including the aging of the Stonewall generation, new HIV-prevention technologies, intimate partner violence, transgender healthcare, biphobia and body image.
The summit begins Friday, Aug. 14, with a day devoted specifically to the bisexual community. Saturday, Aug. 15, kicks off the full LGBTI Health Summit, which continues through Tues., Aug. 18. The conference site is the Chicago Hilton and Towers, 720 S. Michigan.
Registration for all five days is $200, and includes continental breakfast and lunch every day, plus special amenities like freechair massages and fun social activities. See www.2009lgbtihealth.org.

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Health summit Aug. 14-18

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 24

Issue: 41

Pages: 7

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2009

Publication date: Jul 15, 2009

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 432803972

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/health-summit-aug-14-18/docview/432803972/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jul 15, 2009

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Health summit Aug. 14-18

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/health-summit-aug-14-18/docview/432804973/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Organizers of the 2009 National LGBTI Health Summit announced that, in collaboration with the Bisexual Health Summit, close to 100 workshops, plenaries and town halls will be offered at this year's event.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=40&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=7&amp;date=2009-07-08&amp;atitle=Health+summit+Aug.+14-18&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=40&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=7&amp;date=2009-07-08&amp;atitle=Health+summit+Aug.+14-18&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Organizers of the 2009 National LGBTI Health Summit announced that, in collaboration with the Bisexual Health Summit, close to 100 workshops, plenaries and town halls will be offered at this year's event. An array of topics will be covered, including the aging of the Stonewall generation, new H IV- prevention technologies, intimate partner violence, transgender healthcare, biphobia and body image.
The summit begins Friday, Aug. 14, with a day devoted specifically to the bisexual community. Saturday, Aug. 15, kicks off the full LGBTI Health Summit, which continues through Tues., Aug. 18. The conference site is the Chicago Hilton and Towers, 720 S. Michigan.
Registration for all five days is $200, and includes continental breakfast and lunch every day, plus special amenities like freechair massages and fun social activities. See www.2009lgbtihealth.org.

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Conferences; Riots; Human immunodeficiency virus--HIV; Public health; Workshops

Business indexing term: Subject: Workshops

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Health summit Aug. 14-18

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 24

Issue: 40

Pages: 7

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2009

Publication date: Jul 8, 2009

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 432804973

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/health-summit-aug-14-18/docview/432804973/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jul 8, 2009

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Farrah Fawcett dies at 62

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/farrah-fawcett-dies-at-62/docview/432806956/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Local TV stations will pay tribute to [Farrah Fawcett]. Beginning Saturday, June 27, and all through next week, Me-TV and THIStv will feature tributes to her. Me-TV (WCIU DT 26.2, Comcast Digital Cable Channel 223, DirecTV Channel 23, DISH Network Channel 23) will run episodes of [Charlie]'s Angels Monday-Friday, June 29-July 3, at 11 a.m. and 12 p.m.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=40&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2009-07-01&amp;atitle=Farrah+Fawcett+dies+at+62&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=40&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2009-07-01&amp;atitle=Farrah+Fawcett+dies+at+62&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Farrah Fawcett, the actress renowned for her blonde hair, '70s show Charlie's Angels and best-selling poster died June 25. She was 62.
Fawcett, who checked into a hospital in early April, had been battling anal cancer for three years. CNN.com reported that longtime boyfriend Ryan O'Neal and her friend Alana Stewart were with Fawcett at Saint John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif., when she died.
A documentary on Fawcetfs battle with cancer called "Farrah's Story" aired on NBC May 15. Among Fawcetfs movies were the TV film The Burning Bed (1984), Extremities (1986) and The Apostle (1997).
Fawcett, who starred as an abused woman in The Burning Bed, has set aside part of her estate to help domestic-abuse survivors, according to WENN.com.
Local TV stations will pay tribute to Fawcett. Beginning Saturday, June 27, and all through next week, Me-TV and THIStv will feature tributes to her. Me-TV (WCIU DT 26.2, Comcast Digital Cable Channel 223, DirecTV Channel 23, DISH Network Channel 23) will run episodes of Charlie's Angels Monday-Friday, June 29-July 3, at 11 a.m. and 12 p.m. THIStv (WCIU DT 26.4, Comcast 246, RCN 38 and WOW 195) will show The Nazi Hunter: Beate Klarsfeld Story July 1 at 7 p.m.; and Small Sacrifices July 1 at 3 p.m.
Fawcett is survived by her son, Redmond O'Neal, and her 91-year-old father, James, according to Philly.com.
The service for Fawcett took place at the Cathedral of Our Lady of the Angels in Los Angeles June 30.

Subject: Deaths

People: Fawcett, Farrah

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Farrah Fawcett dies at 62

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 24

Issue: 40

Pages: 16

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2009

Publication date: Jul 1, 2009

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 432806956

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/farrah-fawcett-dies-at-62/docview/432806956/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jul 1, 2009

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

30 UNDER THIRTY HONORS

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/30-under-thirty-honors/docview/432811412/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [JORDAN HEINZ] started in 2005 as the firm's first openly gay attorney. Since then, Jordan has led the development of the Kirkland & Ellis' LGBT community, which is now one of the largest and most active in the Chicago legal market. Aside from his primary practice, Jordan spends his time as the associate pro bono coordinator, a position that allows him to increase the firm's pro bono practice through placing those cases with attorneys.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=39&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=38&amp;date=2009-06-24&amp;atitle=30+UNDER+THIRTY+HONORS&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=39&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=38&amp;date=2009-06-24&amp;atitle=30+UNDER+THIRTY+HONORS&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: TENTH ANNUAL
WINDY CITY TIMES
DAVID DODD
David, 27, currently serves as communications manager for Windy City Black Pride (WCBP), a volunteer- based 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization that provides resources, conducts outreach and hosts the largest event in the Midwest for the African-American LGBT community. He is responsible for developing and implementing the organization's local and national advertising, marketing, and public relations strategies. In addition, he assists in the organization's philanthropic initiatives.
Born and raised in the Washington, D. C, metropolitan area, David moved to Chicago at 17, three weeks after graduating from high school to become a fashion designer. He soon learned that sewing was not for him and changed paths to work in another creative world the advertising industry.
David holds a degree in marketing from Chicago State University and will pursue an MBA in the fall at Roosevelt University.
Did you know? David is a champion bowler with a 195 average.
CAMERON ESPOSITO
Cameron, 27, is an up-and-coming stand-up comic based in Chicago. She is a cast member at the Lincoln Lodge and Chicago Underground Comedy; produces her own show at the Town Hall Pub; and has performed as far from home as London, England, and Cape Town, South Africa. She is a regular guest on the podcast Feast of Fun, and teaches stand-up classes for women. Cameron also has her own Web series on AfterEllen.com called "Cameron Esposito: Homo Genius."
Did you know? Cameron will be acting as ringmaster during on a monthlong tour with El Circo Cheapo, a local circus and aerial performance troupe this fall making all of her dreams come true.
RILEY JOHNSON
Riley - an educator, scholar and leatherman - serves as coordinator of the Great Lakes Bootblack contest, a title he himself won in 2007. A history geek at heart, Riley, 30 (but 29 when he was nominated), also serves as a coordinator of the Leather Archives and Museum Roadshow, the traveling team which presents the LA&M's exhibits of leather and fetish history around the world.
Riley is also a co-founder of Trans Gynecology Access Program (TGAP; qphc.org), which provides transmen, butches and genderqueers with the option of having a transman health educator in with them for any part of their exams to help them feel more at ease and to share expertise. As a part of this program, Riley is writing a comprehensive sa fer- sex guide that includes self-defense techniques and tips on disclosure, harm reduction and negotiation.
Did you know? When not working or volunteering, Riley enjoys manhandling, whip-throwing and a wellstocked humidor.
JADE (DAVID) SOTOMAYOR
Jade, 25, is a professional female impersonator who has performed in many clubs throughout Chicago and Detroit - and current is featured at the local restaurant Sangria. Jade has been thrust into the national spotlight thanks to her appearance on the LOGO reality- TV show RuPaul's Drag Race, which premiered in February.
Jade was recently honored as outstanding Aspirante at the 40th anniversary of the ASPIRA Association, which promotes the empowerment of the Puerto Rican and Latino communities by developing and nurturing the potential of its youth. Also, in 2007, she was selected as the first female impersonator to represent the Puerto Rican community under the Paseo Boricua Pageantry system; her mission included visiting different groups and doing outreach/education.
Jade is currently on tour throughout the United States. She is also working on her music and just filmed her debut in the film My Guaranteed Student Loan
Did you know? To be a part of RuPaul's Drag Show, Jade was one of nine contestants whittled down from more than 3,000 applicants.
JACQUT JACKSON
Jacqui, 23, recently finished the B. F. A. Acting program at The Theatre School at De Paul University. After leaving DePaul last June, she worked as an actress in many productions and films shot or produced in the Chicago area. Most notably, she played Greta in the lesbian feature film Hannah Free, which was written by Claudia Allen, directed by Wendy Jo Carlton and starred Sharon G less.
Jacqui started her acting career at age 3, and has performed in more than 50 productions in the last 20 years. In an effort to use art to promote social dialogue, last summer Jacqui participated in "Embrace the Gayness," a play performed guerrilla-style in a popular Chicago park. In its climactic final scene, two women kiss in the park, creating a public affirmation of safety and acceptance for the lesbian community.
Did you know? Jacqui's first crush was on Debbie Harry, the lead singer of Blondie.
CHRIS COHEN
Chris, 22, never guessed - growing up in the Windy City - that one day he would be able to make an impact on the community and become an inspiration to others through his accomplishments. At 18, Chris began pursuing a degree in fashion design that led him to Los Angeles, Calif.
The major turning point in Chris' modeling career is in 2008, when he found himself as a contestant on Bravo's Make Me a Supermodel. He became the next pivotal openly gay contestant after Ronnie Kroell (who was a 30 Under 30 honoree last year). Chris aims to push the boundaries of everything he does in order to make others question: What is identity? What is gender? What is reality? He believes when you stop accepting the norm and start questioning your very being, only then can you see things in a different light and discover more about who you really are.
Did you know? For inspiration, Chris refers to a quote by Anthony Robbins: "We can change our lives. We can do, have and be exactly what we wish."
SHREYA SHAH
Shreya, 26, is an organizer and artist currently based at the Broadway Youth Center (BYC), where she has spent the last three years. She works as a sexual health educator, co- facilitato r of the peer advocate program and youth worker (who gets to hang out on the regular with amazing young folks in BYC's drop-in space). She looks forward to graduating from the Institute of HIV Prevention Leadership, becoming a certified SisterSong doula and starting a masters in sexual health within the next year.
Shreya's dream is to spend her days organizing with queer communities of color through storytelling. She hopes to use sound and film to address things like sexual health, healing, queerness and collective struggles against all forms of violence. Shreya is currently working on two sound projects: Q & (s)A (an oral-history project about queer and South Asian folks) and Everyday Healers.
Did you know? In the last few years, Shreya has taken classes in both singing and clowning, although her sister still cringes whenever she attempts either.
AMY STAUFFER
Amy, 27, a native Chicagoan, has been working on HIV prevention research projects since 2004. A "jill-of-alltrades," she has worked on over 10 different HIV prevention projects in various capacities from facilitating prevention groups to testing the effectiveness of comprehensive sexual health curriculum. Additionally, Amy has been an active member of the HIV Prevention Planning Group of Chicago since 2006.
Did you know? Amy has recently started taking trapeze lessons and enjoys swinging around upside down.
KATIE O'MALLEY
Katie, 26, is a product of the Midwest - living in Illinois, Missouri, Ohio and Minnesota before moving to New York City at the age of 22. As a 2004 graduate from Miami University of Ohio, Katie began her multifaceted career as a field director for The Young Voter Project in Minnesota - and spearheaded the program in central Minnesota, changing the color of 19 precincts from red to blue and helping Minnesota send its electoral Votes to John Kerry in 2004.
In 2007, Katie moved back to Chicago after accepting her current position as a development associate with the AIDS Foundation of Chicago (AFC). Throughout the year, Katie works on multiple fundraising events to support the AFC's grantmaking initiatives in the community - specifically, AIDS Run & Walk Chicago, World of Chocolate, Make a Statement: Design for the Cure and Dance for Life. In her past two years at AFC, Katie is most proud of her work with the CommunityDirect program of AIDS Run & Walk Chicago that allows HIV/ AIDS service providers to form teams and receive back 100% of the money that they raise for the event.
Did you know? Katie has attended one Dave Matthews Band concert every year since 1998.
GABRIEL ERVIN
Gabriel, 26, is a self-described "hot mess in the struggle" while working as a resource advocate in the drop-in program (a program for LGBTQ youth, street-based youth and young people experiencing homelessness) at the Broadway Youth Center. Gabriel identifies as trans, and as such, "their gender is somewhere between glittery red and purple - and sometimes has pink dots." Gabriel is driven by a fierce passion for harm reduction, transformative justice, young people, voguing and celebration. In the past, Gabriel was organizer for Camp Trans, an annual gathering of transgender people and their allies in Michigan.
Did you know? Gabriel can remember the lyrics to the intra of almost every sitcom and cartoon from the '80s.
JORDAN HEINZ
Jordan, 29, graduated from Northwestern University in 2002 and from the University of Pennsylvania Law School in 2005. Jordan now practices at Kirkland & Ellis LLP in the intellectual property department, focusing on trademark and false advertising litigation.
Jordan started in 2005 as the firm's first openly gay attorney. Since then, Jordan has led the development of the Kirkland & Ellis' LGBT community, which is now one of the largest and most active in the Chicago legal market. Aside from his primary practice, Jordan spends his time as the associate pro bono coordinator, a position that allows him to increase the firm's pro bono practice through placing those cases with attorneys. In his own pro bono work, Jordan focuses on matters related to LGBT rights.
Jordan also serves on the board of directors of the AIDS Legal Council of Chicago and on the Junior Board of Chicago Volunteer Legal Services.
Did you know? Despite having webbed feet, Jordan is an absolutely terrible swimmer.
KELLY COOK-GINN
Since moving to Chicago severalyears ago, Kelly, 29, has focused on bringing attention to the rights of individuals of all identities who receive social services. After receiving her masters degree in London with a concentration in youth rights, she joined AmeriCorps and was placed at Horizons, where she facilitated the youth leadership program. In addition, Kelly worked at Teen Living Programs, where she established a youth council.
Currently at Howard Brown Health Center, Kelly has directed her attention to individuals living with HIV, and continues to initiate programs that encourage individuals to actively engage with the services they receive. Kelly feels grateful for the teachers and colleagues she has had along her journey.
Did you know? Kelly has been an avid potter for over 10 years.
STEPHANIE GENTRYFERNANDEZ
Stephanie, 27, is a mixed Mexicana gende rqueer poet and performer from Chicago's South side. She is thrilled to work at Broadway Youth Center as a resource advocate and co -facilitator of the peer advocate program, a program serving to link violence prevention to HIV prevention. Stephanie is an artistic associate of Teatro Luna, and you may recognize her from "Machos" and "S-e-x-ohl" Stephanie is also a proud member of the Left Turn Collective, a grassroots publication of notes from the global intifada.
Did you know? If Stephanie had a superpower, it would be the ability to spontaneously burst into choreographed musical triangle dances with everyone around her.
EDWIN ERVIN
Edwin, 28, have been working in the field of HIV education/prevention since November 2002. In 2005, he was on CAN-TV monthly, presenting ways people could protect themselves from contracting HIV. Currently, Edwin is the Brothas Saving Brothas Coordinator at BEHIV (Better Existence with HIV).
Edwin is also a member of the Northside HIV Health Coalition. He has a passion for helping people in the LGBTQA community; being a Black gay man and seeing recent numbers, Edwin feels its part of his duty to help reduce those numbers.
Did you know? On Saturday mornings, Edwin still gets up with a bowl of cereal and watches cartoons, leading his partner to think that he is a 9 year-old trapped in a man's body.
SEAN CASEY
Sean, 27, serves as the coordinator of the Global Equality Network at Heartland Alliance for Human Needs & Human Rights, supporting the development of grassroots LGBT civil society organizations in countries that are particularly dangerous or oppressive for LGBT populations. Sean is currently working with LGBT activists and organizations in such places as Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Nigeria, Sri Lanka, Burundi and Lebanon.
Originally from King of Prussia, Pa., Sean studied international journalism at the American University of Paris and received a master's in HIV/AIDS and Society from the University of Cape Town in South Africa. In addition to France and South Africa, Sean has lived and worked in Rwanda and Haiti.
Did you know? Sean is a fluent French speaker, muddles through Haiti Creole and is constantly trying to improve his Spanish.
SHAE HEALEY
I Shae, 22, moved to Chicago from Portland, Ore., last year. Since coming out at 19, Shae has made LGBTQ activism a priority on both academic and professional levels.
Growing up in suburbia, attending college in rural America and living in Chicago, Shae has experienced varying perspectives and experiences surrounding homophobia and acceptance. Her undergraduate thesis focused on the atmosphere surrounding LGBTQ youth in Walla Walla, Wash., and inspired several front-page stories and community conversations concerning her involvement in pioneering the small town's first LGBTQ youth program. While studying abroad in Botswana - a country where same-sex conduct is illegal - Shae worked closely with LeGaBiBo, the nation's only LGBTQ organization. Shae currently works for the Center on Halsted Youth Program as a career employment specialist.
Did you know? Shae is sensitive to caffeine, interested in women's studies and humbled by this award.
KRISTIN KEGLOVITZ BAKER
Kristin, 28, has been working at Howard Brown as a physician's assistant for the past four years, and am committed to working for and with the LGBT community. Kristin is also involved in Camp Dreamcatcher - a camp in Pennsylvania for children affected/infected with HIV/AIDS- and is a mentor for Mercy Home through the Evans Scholar Foundation.
To Kristin, her dedication to medicine and providing quality healthcare to the Chicago LGBT community is one of the most important parts of her life. She started out as a medical assistant in the small town of Vi sa lia, Calif., and couldn't be happier to be in Chicago. She would like to eventually see a decline in HIV/AIDS infection; more of our community accessing quality healthcare; and LGBT folks raising healthy, happy, well-adjusted children.
Did you know? In the past year, Kristin has broken her leg once and her nose twice. Also, Kristin and her wife, Bridget Baker, are expecting twins any day now.
KEVIN FERENCHAK
Kevin is a 21-year-old undergrad at Loyola University Chicago. Recognizing that the campus is undergoing major growth, he spends part of his time ensuring that LGBTQ equality and concerns are part of the emerging culture of the Catholic university. He has served on the planning committees for Loyola's GLBTQ Week, Hate Crime Awareness Month and the university's Day of Silence.
Off-campus, Kevin has been trained as an HIV/STD test counselor at the Howard Brown Broadway Youth Center. He also cofounded a free ACT prep course for an inner city high school. Most recently, he is a published author for his genetics and virology research at The SaIk Institute in La JoLLa, California.
In 2008 he was awarded the Point Foundation Scholarship. Looking forward, Kevin hopes to attend medical school and one day become a father.
Did you know? Kevin once potty-trained a two-year-old in two days because he was sick of dirty diapers.
MARK PINEDA
Mark, 24, is a disease intervention specialist for Howard Brown Health Center. As a specialist, Mark has worked proudly to help educate, motivate and help all in the LGBTQI community who may be affected by STD/HIV in an effort to eradicate disease in our communities being that we are most disproportionately disadvantaged and affected.
Mark came to Howard Brown in 2007 with hopes of providing health care to those most in need, helping our community help itself and create awareness around the importance of great healthcare made accessible to everyone. Mark is so proud to be a part of the Latin@ Committee for Howard Brown, co- fa ci lita ti ? g the first-ever Latino Support Group, Empoderando Comunidades/ Empowering Communities. Mark is presently pursuing his degree in sociology with a focus on psychology and LGBTQI health. He has learned the value of hard work, the importance of standing up for what you believe and the passion for social advocacy and welfare - because of great role models and heroes.
Did you know? Mark loves Latin music and will go out dancing with his friends - and will even sing a little karaoke from time to time, if they let him.
CLAY REHRIG
Clay, 24, is a rising third-year student at Loyola University Chicago School of Law where he is a 2009/2010 ABA Moot Court Team oralist, and is pursuing a certificate in international law. As the 2008/2009 co-president of OUTLAW, Loyola's LGBT organization, Clay has been an integral part of leading this group of students and allies in advocating for the recognition and support of LGBT students within the legal community. Last summer, Clay worked with Equality Illinois compiling, comparing and summarizing all state statutes discussing marriage in order to assist El's mission to secure equal marriage rights for same-sex couples. This summer, Clay is working for Ed Fox 8i Associates, where he helps research and draft legal memos and motions and while pursuing civil-rights lawsuits.
Did you know? Originally from Texas, Clay enjoys cooking, swimming and speaking German. Recently, he won third place in Loyola's annual "No Talent Show" for his performance of the Backstreet Boys' "I Want It That Way."
KRISTEN KAZA
Since moving to Chicago from Vermont in 2003, Kristen, 24, has worked in events planning and publicity for several Chicago publications, companies and causes, most recently with Chicago film company Yellow Wing Productions. In 2007, Kaza joined the team to spearhead publicity, which developed into a co-producer role for the feature film Fish out of Water, a documentary that explores the impassioned relationship between homosexuality and the Bible.
Kristen focuses on the fundraising and outreach aspects of production by developing partnerships with various community and organizations, coordinating fundraising events, working with both the local and national media, and developing grant proposals. (She also contracted Golden Globe-nominated queer musician Kaki King to score the movie.) The film will officially premiere at Outfest 2009 in Los Angeles July 18.
Did you know? Kristen is a seventh-generation Vermonter who puts maple syrup on everything, even her morning grapefruit.
JEREMY CARTER
Jeremy, 25 - who works as the prevention coordinator for the Center on Halsted's Youth Program - is a native of St. Louis, Mo. He is currently a student at Northeastern Illinois University, where he is pursuing his BSW (Bachelor's in Social Work), after which he will begin his strive to receive his masters in the same field. Jeremy plans to eventually become involved in policy writing and implementation.
Jeremy is also involved with two committees (Connect2Protect and The
National Youth Advocacy Coalition's "You Know Different" Campaign"). Since 2006, Jeremy has given presentations on sexually transmitted infections to high schools, agencies and colleges, reaching nearly 900 young people. Jeremy plans to continue in the field of social services as he enjoys helping others to realize and achieve their full potential.
Did you know? Sherri Sheppard from ABC's The View recently told Jeremy that he was an inspiration.
DARIUS MAYFIELD
Darius, 25, has been ac- tive in STD prevention in the com- munity ever since he was 14 years old. Ninth-grade sexual-edu- cation class inspired him to help educate about preventing the spread of STDs, HIV, and AIDS in the community. At the age of 21, Darius joined a group in Los Angeles called Positively Speaking; with this group he traveled to different schools facilitating about HIV/AIDS.
Two years later he moved to Chicago, where he started volunteering at different community events like Love Fest. Volunteering led him to becoming an outreach specialist at Taskforce Prevention and Community Services, and he went on to become a prevention counselor and a certified HIV tester. Soon after, he was hired by the Public Health Institute in June 2008 as the project manager of the Chicago Black Gay Men's Caucus. Darius is still with the caucus, and plans to continue to do what he can to make a difference in the community.
Did you know? Although Darius is a pretty small guy, he is known for eating like a man with two stomachs - so his friends call him "Fatty."
DENISE NUNES
Denise, 26, 13 from Evanston, Ill. She graduated from Williams College in 2005 and worked "like 9,000 jobs" until she found herself employed at the Broadway Youth Center. She considers working there one of the best things that has ever happened to her - second only to the time she spent promoting community health and sanitation in the Dominican Republic, and Nicaragua with Amigos de las Americas.
Adolescent health is Denise's passion. She has been working with the Broadway Youth Center since December 2007. She hits up local high schools and community groups, providing them with a real and honest approach to sexual health. Denise is currently preparing herself to apply to masters nursing programs, and is suffering through the summer session of anatomy and physiology.
Still, she thinks it is all worth it. Denise feels the community has a need for culturally competent medical providers - and she can't wait to write her first prescription.
Did you know? Denise does not like breakfast foods.
LAWRENCE PEREA
Lawrence, 29, moved to Chicago seven years ago from the Southwest, and since then has developed a passion for LGBT advocacy. From performing with the Chicago Gay Men's Chorus to serving as council member on the City of Chicago's Commission on Human Relations, Lawrence has seen the glory and the struggle of the LGBT-rights movement in Chicago.
He served as a leading committee member on the marketing and development teams for the 2006 Gay Games, and has volunteered for community groups such as Equality Illinois and TPAN (Test Positive Aware Network), among others. Lawrence holds a particular concern for youth and transgender issues, and most recently has become co-founder of LGBTChange.org, a grassroots LGBT outreach group. He gives his thanks to his family and dear friends for all their love and support as he continues to fight for the LGBT community in understanding and resolving the struggles and inequalities for LGBT persons.
Did you know? Among other things, Lawrence hates onions; plays the alto saxophone; loves to do yoga and Pilates; and was a drum major in high school.
JOHN LITCHFIELD
John, 27 - who is a Chicago-area native - recently graduated from Loyola University Chicago School of Law, where he founded the law school's LGBT student organization, OUTLAW. He currently serves as a board member of the Lesbian and Gay Bar Association of Chicago, and was integral in developing its lawyer-student mentorship program. While at Loyola, John helped bring LGBT issues to the forefront of the school's concept of diversity by increasing LGBT visibility and activity.
Since OUTLAWs founding in 2007, its membership has grown from fewer than 10 concerned students to over 40 gay, lesbian and allied students, faculty and staff members. OUTLAW has hosted forums on same-sex marriage, HIV/AIDS and related topics.
In 2008, John served on Obama for America's LGBT task force, and was a member of the campaign's legal team observing polling places in South Bend, Ind., on Election Day.
I Did you know? John is an avid scotch whiskey consumer, and maintains his membership with the Edinburgh Scotch Whiskey Appreciation Society.
MARCO HIDALGO
Marco, 29, moved to Chicago in 2004 and is currently a Ph.D. candidate in clinical-community psychology at DePaul University. Marco has worked in the field of HIV prevention since 1998, in the United States and in Kenya. Currently, he works at Howard Brown Health Center, where he directs an HIV prevention research project for GBQ young men called My-Peeps.org.
In 2005, Marco began addressing an epidemic whose presence within LGBTQ communities is relatively ignored: intimate partner violence. As a volunteer psychotherapist with Howard Brown's Violence Recovery Project, Marco developed a psycho-educational support group for people who have experienced samegender IPV. Marco's dissertation research will result in the creation of a same-gender IPV assessment tool intended for use among health- and service-providers.
Did you know? A California native, Marco tries not to "HS" too much on his home state. However, he dreams the Land of Lincoln will beat a certain "Golden State" to the altar.
JOHN RICHARDS
John, 27, is an attorney who practices in the Labor & Employment group of Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP with a particular emphasis on class action and multiparty litigation arising under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act.
With respect to the LGBT community, John represents pro bono LGBT clients seeking asylum on behalf of the National Immigration Justice Center. He is the chair of the Chicago Bar Association's Committee on LGBT Rights; a board memberof the Lesbian and Gay Bar Association of Chicago; has served on the Illinois Bar Association Committee on Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity and Committee on Diversity; and has been on the Howard Brown Leadership Council. John is actively involved in Lambda Legal, and have spoken as a panelist and published numerous articles on a variety LGBT issues.
Prior to moving to Chicago, John worked with Equality Advocates Pennsylvania, where he represented clients involving name changes for transgender individuals, custody modifications and employment discrimination involving LGBT individuals. Recently, John was recognized as a "rising star" in the 2009 edition of Illinois Super Lawyers. John is a summa cum laude graduate of Vanderbilt University and a cum laude graduate of the University of Pennsylvania Law School.
Did you know? John has never had a cup of coffee or a candy bar.
RYAN KAMINSKI
- Ryan Kaminski: Ryan, 23, was born in Palos Heights, Ill., and grew up in the nearby suburb of Orland Park. At the age of 10, Ryan's parents knew he was interested in politics when they obsessively collected all the country flags from Walt Disney World's Epcot World Showcase attraction. Attending the University of Chicago, he concentrated in international studies and political science while promoting LGBTQ interests on the UChicago College Council.
Interning at Amnesty International's Chicago office, Ryan worked on a campaign to raise awareness about Chicago Police-LGBTQ relations and increasing accountability within the Chicago Police Department. During this time, Ryan also volunteered for the United Nations Association's Global Classrooms program by co-facilitating Model UN conferences in Chicago, Los Angeles and New York for underserved youth. Following his graduation in June 2008, Ryan traveled to Hong Kong as a Fulbright English Teaching Assistant. In April 2009, Ryan received the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Graduate Fellowship, which he plans to use to study international security at Columbia University.
Did you know? Ryan is a vegan and a running enthusiast.
MATTHEW LEW
Matthew, 29, is a nationally recognized artist who has turned his art into advocacy for LGBT organizations. Matthew's work can be found in national retailer CB2 (by Crate & Barrel), and has been featured on Extreme Makeover: Home Edition, HGTVs Divine Design with Candice Olson and CBS' The Early Show.
Matthew has donated more than $100,000 worth of original artwork, and has painted live at LGBT events to raise funds for organizations including the Human Rights Campaign, Test Positive Aware Network, Chicago House, Center on Halsted and Equality Illinois. He soon took his passion for equality and talents outside of Chicago by traveling to fundraisers across the country, such as Telluride Aids Benefit, GLAAD and the HRC in New York, Boston and Denver.
Matthew's mixed-media work fuses paint and photography, creating a diverse range of pieces for everyone from the first-time buyer to the seasoned collector. He recently earned recognition as one of the The Advocate magazine's "Forty Under Forty" and "Best Emerging Artist 2009" by the Chicago Reader.
Did you know? Matthew lived in Spain for three years, and hiked 500 miles along the Camino de Santiago in Spain with his mother.
30 UNDER THIRTY SPECIAL TEEN AWARDS
MATT SCHLAGEL
Matt, 18, was born in Chicago and attended Bateman Ele- mentary school, Thurgood Mar- shall Middle School and Lake View High School. After coming out to his parents, Matt pushed to form the Lake View Gay-Straight Alliance during his sophomore year, creating a safe environment for other LGBT students in Lake View. Three years ago, Matt attended his first Illinois Safe Schools Alliance meeting; since then, he has learned to reform ideas and organize them, which he puts forth to educate surrounding youth in the Chicagoland area. Matt plans to go to Northeastern Illinois University to further his education in psychology and social work, and to further help LGBT youths.
Did you know? While horseplaying with his friend Jordan, her chair accidentally went through a wall - but Matt stayed with her so that they both faced the music from her father.
TEA SEFER
Tea has lived in the United States for 10 years and just turned 17. She's been working with About Face Theatre since the beginning of 2008 and performed in their main stage production of Fast Forward during the summer of 2008. Tea has also been working with the Illinois Safe School's Alliance for the past school year. This fall, she will be starting her senior year at Lincoln Park High School and aspires to continue her social justice activism for the rest of her life.
Did you know? Tea loves to play and listen to music and has attempted to learn the piano, drums, guitar, and violin.
SCOTT JABUREK
Scott, 16, grew up on the South Side of Chicago in the Beverly neighborhood, where he started his political activism by vol- unteering for Barack Obama's 2004 Senate campaign at the age of 13. When he entered high school at Walter Payton College Prep, Scott became an active member of his school's queer- straight alliance. Under his un- official presidency the Alliance has hosted two now-annual coming out days, as well as organizing 20% of his school to participate in the 2009 Day of Silence.
During his sophomore year in high school, Scott found About Face Theater - and his calling. As a member of the youth theater, Scott has appeared in Fast Forward and Stupid Kids, and participated in a special 10-year anniversary reading of The Laramie Project. Scott is also a member of the youth committee for the Illinois Safe Schools Alliance, and recently worked with Equality Illinois in attempting to pass the Illinois Civil Union and Religious Freedom Act.
Did you know? Scott played a magical forest nymph in a school production of the Frog Prince.
XAVIER RAMIREZ
Xavier, 17, is about to enter his senior year at Prasser Career Academy in the International Baccalaureate program. He has been in about 15 clubs at his school. Xavier has been with the Illinois Safe School Alliance for two years and plans to help out even after he is in college (even holding his own in a meeting between the alliance and Chicago Public Schools attorneys), and credits Alliance President David Fisher for bringing out his inner activist. Xavier was one of the student contributors for The Mash, a student-led newspaper put out by The Chicago Tribune. He hopes that one day his writing and activism for equal rights will help change the world.
Did you know? Xavier can play three instruments, loves to play Volleyball and considers himself to be a pretty decent writer.
JOSE "CHE-CHE" TURRUBIARTEZ
Jose, a 16-year-old Latino who is openly gay, currently attends Lincoln Park High School. He is a dancer, as well as an actor with About Face Youth Theater. He grew up in Wicker Park, and still lives there. Ever since he can remember, his mother would take him to rallies to protest and march, so that illegal immigrants could obtain their citizenship. Since then, he has been an activist for illegal immigrants.
As Jose turned older, he realized he was gay and that the LGBTQ community goes through so much discrimination and hate. He decided to also be an activist for LGBTQ rights and to get involve as much as I possibly can. Jose works with the Illinois Safe Schools Alliance, Gender JUST and Unidad Calor.
Did you know? Jose - who's currently in the Joffrey Ballet's intensive summer program-loves crab rangoon, sings in Spanish and does not drink soda.
30 UNDER THIRTY JOINT HONORARY AWARD
The three individuals who organized the massive anti-Proposition 8 rally and march that took place last Novemberare receiving a joint honorary award. They are:
MISSY LORENZEN
Missy, 23, is a web designer/slacker-turned-activist by the unhappy outcome of Prop 8 on Nov. 4. Originally from Kansas City, Kansas, she knows all too well the issues facing the LGBTQ community outside of the liberal bubble of Chicago. She currently serves as the media director for Join the Impact Chicago, as well as wo-manning the Web site.
Did you know? Missy can fall asleep anywhere, anytime. Also, she can make her ears fart - a talent which, until recently, she had no idea others could hear.
NIK MACIEJEWSKI
Nik, 22, is a native of Chicagoland. In 2004, he moved to the city and spent four years trying to figure out what he wanted to make of himself. After the passing of Proposition 8 in California, he caught the activism bug and has been helping run the local grassroots LGBTQ group Join the Impact Chicago.
Did you know? Aside from his activism, he will be working to get a bachelors degree in American Sign Language from Columbia College Chicago so he can finally pay his bills.
CORINNE MINA
Corrine, 23, a Columbia College graduate, became an activist on Nov. 4, 2008. Since then, she has been organizing protests and fighting for equal-marriage rights with her friends, Nik and Missy, who co-founded Join the Impact Chicago.
Did you know? Corinne is a freelance classical-music composer and air-guitar rock star.

Subject: Awards & honors; Managers; Teachers; Comedians

People: Dodd, David; Johnson, Riley; Esposito, Cameron

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: 30 UNDER THIRTY HONORS

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 24

Issue: 39

Pages: 38,40-45

Number of pages: 7

Publication year: 2009

Publication date: Jun 24, 2009

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 432811412

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/30-under-thirty-honors/docview/432811412/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jun 24, 2009

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Vernita Gray: Fighting for 40 years

Author: Marinkovich, Paul

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vernita-gray-fighting-40-years/docview/432808738/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: I feel it is imperative to work with both populations because the services didn't exist 50 years ago," said [Gray]. "And really, when we talk about seniors, they still don't exist. I am a product of my time. When I was a youth, I had friends who were homeless. Now I have a friend who went into a senior residence and when I saw the way that she was being treated in there, I was appalled. We still have work ahead of us because we aren't all glamorous gays like you see on TV.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=32&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2009-05-06&amp;atitle=Vernita+Gray%3A+Fighting+for+40+years&amp;au=Marinkovich%2C+Paul&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=32&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2009-05-06&amp;atitle=Vernita+Gray%3A+Fighting+for+40+years&amp;au=Marinkovich%2C+Paul&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Vernita Gray has dedicated most of her life to the fight for LGBT equality. She is the director of community relations and special events at the Cook County State's Attorney's office - a post she achieved after 16 years of service.
But Gray has been working with the LGBT community even before pride parades existed. She came out in the fall of 1969 and immediately organized a gay and lesbian hotline, and hosted support groups from her Chicago apartment.
"Necessity is the mother of invention," Gray said of her motivation to create change. "When I came out there wasn't any place that gays and lesbians could go and be safe. That is really what prompted me to become the community activist that I am today."
At just 20 years old, Gray found that many of her friends became homeless when the families discovered their sexual orientation. Her apartment became the "crash pad" and quickly transformed into a safe haven for homeless youth when they had nowhere else to go. Shortly after, Gray became involved with Gay Horizons, an LGBT community center that offered services to the homeless as well as to victims of hate crimes and domestic violence.
In 1992, Gray was inducted into the Chicago Gay and Lesbian Hall of Fame for her resilient efforts as an early leader in the gay-liberation movement
"It is a real acknowledgement of love," she said of the award. "To be in a city where the mayor acknowledges that gay and lesbian people have talent and that we are your sisters and your brothers and your doctors and your teachers. It also represents that we are a part of a larger community - that we are a part of the pie and the struggle. There are no ways around that. We are part of that pie here in Chicago and it is great that our mayor acknowledges that."
Now in her sixth decade, Gray not only works extensively with LGBT youth, but with the aging as well. She serves on the Task Force of the Aging, the LGBT advisory committee to the AARP and the National Gay and Lesbian Senior Task Force.
"I feel it is imperative to work with both populations because the services didn't exist 50 years ago," said Gray. "And really, when we talk about seniors, they still don't exist. I am a product of my time. When I was a youth, I had friends who were homeless. Now I have a friend who went into a senior residence and when I saw the way that she was being treated in there, I was appalled. We still have work ahead of us because we aren't all glamorous gays like you see on TV. Every gay man does not have a beautiful condo and track lights - let's face it. Some of us will age into senior residences because we don't always have someone to take care of us. So it is just a part of my life journey right now."
From opening up her home to homeless gay and lesbian youth to working with political and non-profit organizations, Gray says her work with the LGBT community is far from over.
"It is a lifelong commitment," she said. "It's an incredible family, it is an incredible love and it is definitely an incredible gift in my life that I could have never imagined."

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Equality; Social activism; Community service; Executives

Business indexing term: Subject: Executives

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Gray, Vernita

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Vernita Gray: Fighting for 40 years

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 24

Issue: 32

Pages: 1,6

Number of pages: 2

Publication year: 2009

Publication date: May 6, 2009

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 432808738

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vernita-gray-fighting-40-years/docview/432808738/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyri ght Windy City Media Group May 6, 2009

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

'Straight' talk from Debra Chasnoff

Author: Feder, Sam

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/straight-talk-debra-chasnoff/docview/432818928/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: DC: We ask straight-identified youth how they are affected by anti-gay prejudice. I'm struck by reactions from heterosexual men, both teenagers and adults, who have come up to me in tears saying, "The film just expressed everything I feel inside but never said to anybody. It made so much sense to me." Often, when we address homophobia, it is couched in this framework of equality for LGBT people and gay rights.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=27&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=21&amp;date=2009-04-01&amp;atitle=%27Straight%27+talk+from+Debra+Chasnoff&amp;au=Feder%2C+Sam&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=27&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=21&amp;date=2009-04-01&amp;atitle=%27Straight%27+talk+from+Debra+Chasnoff&amp;au=Feder%2C+Sam&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Headnote MOVIES
From the folks who made Ifs Elementary and Thafs a Family, Lets Get Real, which made a big splash in the Chicago school system, comes Straightlaced - the newest film by academy award winner, Debra Chasnoff. Local filmmaker Sam Feder was able to get a sneak and speak with Chasnoff before the Chicago screening Tuesday, April 7, at Oak Park River Forest High School.
Windy City Times: What a great film! I was surprised how much I enjoyed it. That might sound weird to say...
Debra Chasnoff: People keep saying, "I'm surprised by how much I liked watching this film." ... That's a common reaction. Maybe because of the topic they expect something plotting and somber.
WCT: You're right. I didn't expect it to be so playful in the beginning. Can you describe what we see in Straightlaced?
DC: We see what happens when you give teenagers permission to talk about whafs going on inside their heads when dealing with gender-role expectations and with homophobia. To think about whether ifs unconscious or conscious -the way it affects their lives and how they do or don't make sense of it.
SF: The students are incredibly composed and own their ideas.
DC: Yes; we asked what would you say to someone else in your situation, what goes on inside your head when someone is telling you what to or not wear, what goes through your mind when you get off the bus in the city and people are looking at you and what if people could see what is going on in your mind right now what would they see? This allowed them to articulate themselves.
SF: Whafs unique about this film?
DC: We ask straight-identified youth how they are affected by anti-gay prejudice. I'm struck by reactions from heterosexual men, both teenagers and adults, who have come up to me in tears saying, "The film just expressed everything I feel inside but never said to anybody. It made so much sense to me." Often, when we address homophobia, it is couched in this framework of equality for LGBT people and gay rights. Ifs homophobia and sexism that pushes everybody down ... male and female, no matter what your sexual orientation is.
SF: Do you have any fears about releasing this film?
DC: There will be conservative voices that won't like that we are acknowledging that teenagers have sexual feeling, let alone behavior.
SF: What would you say to those conservative voices?
DC: Wake up! Ifs on teenagers' minds, and there are a Lot of pressures to define yourself through sexual behavior and to have sexual behavior in some effort to prove your sexual orientation.
SF: Tell me about the Chicago screening.
DC: The Chicago premiere is part of a national tour to introduce the film while highlighting and supporting the work of local organizations that are working on issues that are relevant to the film. In this case we are partnering with Illinois Safe Schools Alliance. We are reaching out to a wide network of individuals and organizations who care about young people today. We are working with educators and school and organizations that are working on youth leadership, girls empowerment, school reform, domestic violence prevention.
SF: What do you want for the teenagers who were in it and for viewers to walk away with feeling?
DC: I want the teenagers who were in it to feel proud. They are contributing to something that will open dialogue all over the country.
SF: So you got the stamp of approval.
DC: Yes, from my toughest critic.
Tickets are S10-S20. See groundspark. org/2252.
Read the entire interview at www.WindyCityMediaGroup.com.

Subject: Motion picture directors & producers; Motion pictures; Screenplays; Sexual behavior

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Chasnoff, Debra

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: 'Straight' talk from Debra Chasnoff

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 24

Issue: 27

Pages: 21

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2009

Publication date: Apr 1, 2009

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 432818928

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/straight-talk-debra-chasnoff/docview/432818928/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Apr 1, 2009

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Yes Means Yes! Visions of Female...

Author: Nair, Yasmin

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/yes-means-visions-female/docview/432830465/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Take, for example, "Killing Misogyny," where Cristina Tzintzún writes about her long-term partner Alan's repeated infidelity.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=23&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2009-03-04&amp;atitle=Yes+Means+Yes%21+Visions+of+Female...&amp;au=Nair%2C+Yasmin&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=23&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2009-03-04&amp;atitle=Yes+Means+Yes%21+Visions+of+Female...&amp;au=Nair%2C+Yasmin&amp;id=doi:

Full text: BOOK REVIEW Yes Means Yes! Visions of Female... Edited by Jaclyn Friedman and Jessica Valenti $16.95; Seal Press; 361 pages
REVIEW BY YASMIN NAIR
What would a world without rape look like? Can we discuss rape without defining the subject of the attack as either a virgin or a whore? Can we think about rape as a crime if the woman also enjoys sex in consensual situations?
A new anthology, Yes Means Yes! Visions of Female Sexual Power and a World without Rape, goes beyond the simplistic victim-perpetrator model of rape analysis and asks us to rethink popular sexual tropes." Julia Serano's "Why Nice Guys Finish Last" asks why men who are not sexually aggressive are seen as desexualized. In "The Process-Oriented Virgin," Hanne Blank suggests that the "first time" be defined not by a physical act but in purely subjective terms. So, for instance, if you are a lesbian, you might define your first time as the first time you had sex with another woman, regardless of whether you had sex with men prior.
Despite the occasional interesting piece, Yes Means Yes falls prey to a model of self-righteous victimization that we might expect such an anthology to resist.
Take, for example, "Killing Misogyny," where Cristina Tzintzún writes about her long-term partner Alan's repeated infidelity. Alan never coerces her into sex, and she admits that she stayed with him in order "to prove that someone as sick as he was was capable of transformation." Yet, she does not hesitate to write that she "knew Alan would rape me continuously of my love, my sanity, and my health..." The book uses the word "rape" in such a broad fashion as to render it almost meaningless, and it rests upon the idea of a pervasive "rape culture."
Most of the writers would have us believe that women and children are constantly under the threat of rape, and that rape is inextricably interwoven into the DNA of daily life. That contributes to sexual paranoia, but gets us nowhere towards understanding the specificities of rape and how to deal with it in different circumstances. Surely the continued sexual assault of a child by her parents, the subject of Leah Piepzna-Samarsinha's essay about incest, is rather different from the institutionalized rape of immigrant women at the borders, as discussed in Miriam Peréz's "When Sexual Autonomy Isn't Enough."
Yes Means Yes rests at the nexus of two ideological points. One is a liberal feminism so battered by decades of right-wing sexism that it spends all its energy reacting to the same instead of questioning how it might have become part of the problem. The other is a burgeoning domestic-violence/rape-counseling industrial complex compelled to paint its clients as victims in order to get funding. The one supplies the earnest foot soldiers for the other. Many of the writers work in women-oriented non-profits, but very few see the pitfalls of their work. An exception, Chicagoan Lee Riggs, writes of leaving rape-crisis work because she felt "drained ... within a framework that positioned the criminal legal system as the primary remedy for sexual violence."
Finally, the book focuses so much on "female sexual power" and "healthy relationships" that it fails to ask a critical question: How do we counter the prevailing message that someone who is not in a relationship does not count? The fact that people are made to feel incomplete without partners contributes greatly to their staying in abusive relationships. Telling people that it is okay to be alone will not end rape, but it would go a long way towards forging exactly the kind of self-esteem and power that this book claims to want for everyone.

Subject: Book reviews; Nonfiction; Anthologies; Rape; Gender identity; Gays & lesbians

People: Friedman, Jaclyn; Valenti, Jessica

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Yes Means Yes! Visions of Female...

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 24

Issue: 23

Pages: 16

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2009

Publication date: Mar 4, 2009

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Book Review

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 432830465

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/yes-means-visions-female/docview/432830465/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 4, 2009

Last updated: 2023-08-25

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

A look back: Talking with Burris

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/look-back-talking-with-burris/docview/432826051/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: RB: That's fine. It could be 30 percent or 40 percent of the population. But when you're dealing with my personal, inner beliefs, and my gay friends have respected my views on this because they have parents the same way ... this is something that I'm not new at discussing. They've been trying to convince me [to support samesex marriage] and some of them haven't been able to do it.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=15&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2009-01-07&amp;atitle=A+look+back%3A+Talking+with+Burris&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=15&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=6&amp;date=2009-01-07&amp;atitle=A+look+back%3A+Talking+with+Burris&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Whether Roland Burris gets to hold the post for any length of time will be up to politicians and judges, a fate also awaiting Blagojevich. To provide some background on Burris, who has been out of the spotlight in recent years, Windy City Times is taking a look back at his answers to candidate surveys and interviewer questions.
The following are quotes from an interview with Roland Burris that ran in the December 1997 and January 1998 issues of BLACKlines, a now-defunct sister publication to Outlines newspaper, which in 2000 merged with Windy City Times. The interviewer was Jon Dallas:
Jon Dallas: Same-sex marriages recognized in other states [none at the time of the interview] will not be recognized in Illinois under a law [Senate Bill 1773 sponsored by Sen. Peter Fitzgerald, R-Palatine] signed in May 1996 by Gov. Edgar. If you had been governor, would you have signed that law? Will you work for its repeal?
Roland Burris: [This question] touches on a very philosophical point with me, a personal point. I have made sure that there will be no discrimination against gays and lesbians, as a matter of fact I've amended statutes, sexual orientation preferences for hate crimes saying that you can't attack people and I've worked to pass laws for the interest of anti-discrimination. I've met with all of my gay friends and they know where I stand on this issue. We have discussed it and we have talked about it and they've sought to convince me, but guess what? They haven't quite been able to do it yet. I'm not there. And the reason why I'm not there as I've told them [gay friends] is that they don't have an answer for it either. If you take it [same-sex marriages] to its ultimate conclusion, it will then be the destruction of the species. So therefore, I am not there. The bill that would come to me I could not sign. Not that I don't support all [lesbian and gay] efforts, but when it comes to the sanctity of marriage, that to me under my culture and my beliefs ... is a philosophical difference. In our structure in society, when we look for the perpetuation of mankind, we look for the opposite sex. There was a reason for the creation of the opposite sex - for procreation. Various things have to happen when you get the opposite sex together some person may not be able to produce. But under the biological existence, the circumstances are that they [gays and lesbians] can't. But if you get two females together, you know that they cannot reproduce. You put two males together you know that they cannot reproduce. So given that as I see our societal structure, I see it [society] as having been created in this fashion some other societies and cultures are different as for the perpetuation of the species.
JD: Current statistics state that lesbians and gay men consist of about 10 percent of the population. Given that fact, how do you feel about [same-sex marriage]?
RB: That's fine. It could be 30 percent or 40 percent of the population. But when you're dealing with my personal, inner beliefs, and my gay friends have respected my views on this because they have parents the same way ... this is something that I'm not new at discussing. They've been trying to convince me [to support samesex marriage] and some of them haven't been able to do it. Some of the white [lesbian and gays] have been non-supportive but some Black lesbians and gays [have been supportive]. Marc Loveless and I have been through this and a couple of [my] white staff members knew that some [in the white lesbian and gay community] didn't support my task because it was racism. It had absolutely nothing to do with my personal belief in the sanctity of the homosexual marital relationship. I did not get that support from them [white lesbians and gays] anyway ... they have not supported my candidacy [while] other candidates didn't believe in the marital situation either. It was a race question. To my Black gay and lesbian brothers and sisters, they're dealing with my inner beliefs. And my belief is that I will protect every right that you have and I will go to death with you. But I don't think that we can take it to that level of marriage. If the two [lesbians or gay men] want to get married, live together that is their decision. But don't ask the societal structure to sanction that [marriage]. It would be like the common-law arrangement, and a lot of heterosexuals are in common-law arrangements, there's some protection that [heterosexuals] get under that [arrangement]. Now in the same-sex arrangement, I don't want to go down that path because it's a path of no return. If you start down that [road], generations from now, what will happen to our species? If there's a law [for same-sex marriage] I will not support it.
JD: What will you do to stop violence against lesbian and gay people?
RB: If someone attacks [lesbians and gays] because you are lesbian or gay, they ought to have an enhanced penalty because they have no right to interfere with whatever you want to be ... it [is] your right. I'm not somebody who's flippant about this [issue]. I've been in it, I understand it, I've changed and got educated [on lesbian and gay issues] and have become an advocate for violence against lesbians and gays. I will certainly speak out regarding any violence against any citizen anywhere in the state of Illinois.
JD: Do you favor increasing funds to pay for the new AIDS medications?
RB: I will support anything that will deal with the elimination of AIDS. Certainly. I've been out on AIDS walks and I've hired an HIV-positive person on my staff. I think I'm on the right side of that issue.
JD: Do you support a bill to make discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation illegal in the state of Illinois?
RB: Absolutely.
For the complete interview see the following links: www.windycitymediagroup.com/ gay/lesbian/news/ARTICLE.php?AID=20127 and www.windycitymediagroup.com/gay/lesbian/news/ARTICLE.php?AID=20126.
The AIDS Foundation of Chicago also surveyed the gubernatorial candidates that year. Burris scored a 73-percent rating on that survey, while Blagojevich was 100 percent.
And, finally, below are Bums' answers to the 2002 Windy City Times/BLACKlines questionnaire for statewide candidates.
1. Would you support a state civil rights bill for gays and lesbians? YES.
Would you lobby for it? YES.
2. Do you favor a statewide registry of names of people who test positive for HIV? NO. That is an unreasonable invasion of privacy.
3. On AIDS services in the state, do you favor:
a. Increasing funding? YES.
b. Reducing funding? NO.
c. Maintaining current funding? NO.
4. What steps, beyond current programs, should the state government take to fight AIDS? State government can do more in terms of incorporating responsible sexual awareness education into our public school curriculum; supporting community-based needle exchange programs; and providing financial support for community-based safe sex public education campaigns.
5. On Medicaid, do you favor mandatory coverage of persons with HIV/AIDS? YES.
6. Do you favor same-sex marriage? NO. I favor civil unions, extending employee benefits to include same-sex partners, and the addition of gay, lesbian and transgender protections under the human rights act, but I am opposed, on religious grounds, to recognition by marriage of same-sex couples.
7. Do you believe in the right of gays and lesbians to become foster parents in Illinois? YES.
8. Should gays and lesbians have a right to adopt children? YES.
9. Should gays/lesbians have the right to custody of their own children? YES.
10. Do you favor hate-crimes legislation that increases penalties for crimes committed based on the sexual orientation or gender identity of the person attacked? YES.
11. Do you have rights for transgendered persons in employment, housing and public accomodations? YES.
12. Do you support a woman's right to choose abortion? YES.
13. Do you favor maintaining current affirmative action programs? YES.
14. Do you favor public funding of the Boy Scouts, given that the private agency has been allowed to discriminate against gays and lesbians? NO.
15. Are any members of your current staff, either campaign staff or legislative staff, openly gay, lesbian, bi or transgendered? YES.
16. Please list any and all experience you have on gay issues, whether on legislation, voting lobbying, personal, etc. As attorney general, I was responsible for incorporating gay, lesbian issues into the victim's rights, domestic abuse and hate-crimes legislation. I created the first ever Women's Advocacy Division to protect women from domestic abuse. Those protections extend to gay, lesbian and transgender victims.

Subject: Senators; Same sex marriage; Violence; Sex discrimination

Business indexing term: Subject: Sex discrimination

Location: Illinois; United States--US

People: Burris, Roland

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: A look back: Talking with Burris

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 24

Issue: 15

Pages: 6

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2009

Publication date: Jan 7, 2009

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

ProQuest document ID: 432826051

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/look-back-talking-with-burris/docview/432826051/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jan 7, 2009

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

On the Shore of the Wide World

Author: Morgan, Scott C

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/on-shore-wide-world/docview/432799533/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: For Griffin Theatre's American premiere of Stephens' working-class British drama, director Jonathan Berry and set designer Marianna Czaszar wallow in bleakness: Secondhand chairs with torn upholstery are strewn about the stage like a bombed-out antique shop.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=5&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=15&amp;date=2008-10-15&amp;atitle=On+the+Shore+of+the+Wide+World&amp;au=Morgan%2C+Scott+C&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=5&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=15&amp;date=2008-10-15&amp;atitle=On+the+Shore+of+the+Wide+World&amp;au=Morgan%2C+Scott+C&amp;id=doi:

Full text: THEATER REVIEW
On the Shore of the Wide World
Playwright: Simon Stephens
At: Griffin Theatre Company at Theatre Building Chicago, 1225 W. Belmont
Phone: 773-327-5252; $25
Runs through: Nov. 16
BY SCOTT C. MORGAN
A sense of decay pervades Simon Stephens' 2006 Olivier Award-winning drama On the Shore of the Wide World. Or the play's overall mood could reflect the need for constant rebuilding after irreversible personal cataclysms.
For Griffin Theatre's American premiere of Stephens' working-class British drama, director Jonathan Berry and set designer Marianna Czaszar wallow in bleakness: Secondhand chairs with torn upholstery are strewn about the stage like a bombed-out antique shop.
Yet there's a metaphorical bright light from the fact that two characters are historic preservation specialists. The surroundings and characters' emotional states may look trashed to hell, but Stephens hints at the potential for revitalization and betterment.
This dichotomy is assumingly what Stephens is getting at by showing three generations of the Holmes family thrashing it out in the northern English town of Stockport. Life carries on despite shattered dreams, family tragedies and smash-ups over domestic violence, drugs and infidelity.
For many, Stephens' depiction of everyday British life in the 21st century will infuriate for being too mundane and too long for its own good. Another flaw is Stephens' handling of a characters shocking death, which is introduced like an afterthought.
Another deterrent comes from the fact that the cast all make strong stabs at the characters' thick Northern English dialects. If you never tune into the BBC, you'll long for subtitles.
Yet Stephens packs a lot of challenging acting moments for Griffin's mostly strong ensemble. Director Berry stages the whole show fluidly and effectively.
On the Shore... is an ensemble piece, but the people who get the juiciest dramatic moments are the parents Peter and Alice. In these respective roles, Paul D'Addario and Elise Kauzlaric are utterly convincing as a couple who has drifted apart and consider others for solace when tragedy strikes.
Brian Deneen is utterly genuine as their lanky 18-year-old teenage son, Alex. So is Josh Schecter as the randy 15-year-old son Christopher, who has the hots for his brother's pillpopping girlfriend Sarah Black (a compellingly sarcastic Lucy Carapetyan).
Norm Woodel brings panache to the violent and drunk grandfather Charlie. By contrast, Ariel Brennens turn as Gran Ellen feels underplayed and undefined.
The rest of the cast make essentially cameo appearances that are spot-on. Christopher Chmelik is perfectly hilarious as Paul, Alex and Sarah's drug-dealing pyromaniac friend, while Karyn Morris milks the laughs and poignancy as the pregnant editor Susan Reynolds. Ian Novak's handsome turn as John Robinson also makes a compelling case for the adulterous subplot.
On the Shore... may drag on too long with too much British reserve for most tastes. But it's also an insightful examination of everyday British family life, which will please any Anglophile not exclusively bound to period dramas.

Subject: Theater

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Stephens, Simon; Berry, Jonathan; Kauzlaric, Elise

Company: Griffin Theater Co

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: On the Shore of the Wide World

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 24

Issue: 5

Pages: 15

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2008

Publication date: Oct 15, 2008

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Theater Review

ProQuest document ID: 432799533

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/on-shore-wide-world/docview/432799533/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 15, 2008

Last updated: 2023-08-28

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

The Young Ladies of...

Author: Morgan, Scott C

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/young-ladies/docview/432797080/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Like the hanging stars in the Carousel film, letters addressed to Mac's dad float above Courtney O'Neill's clever paper-filled set. When the letters rain down on Mac, it's one of the show's funniest moments.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=5&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2008-10-15&amp;atitle=The+Young+Ladies+of...&amp;au=Morgan%2C+Scott+C&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=5&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=16&amp;date=2008-10-15&amp;atitle=The+Young+Ladies+of...&amp;au=Morgan%2C+Scott+C&amp;id=doi:

Full text: THEATER REVIEW
The Young Ladies of...
Playwright: Taylor Mac
At: About Face Theatre at Hoover-Leppen Theatre, 3656 N. Halsted
Phone: 773-784-8565; $20-$40
Runs through: Oct. 26
BY SCOTT C. MORGAN
It wouldn't be fair to expect About Face Theatre's new artistic director Bonnie Metzger and managing director Rick Dildine to produce a world premiere for their first show. So even if Taylor Mac's The Young Ladies of... arrives largely prepackaged from New York, the revision for its amusing Chicago premiere does let us see one of the country's rising stars of drag performance art.
Taylor Mac's brand of writing and starring in drag-performance art is largely political and caked with loads of glam makeup. (He also plays the ukulele.) With The Young Ladies of..., Mac takes a more personal (though still political) turn by addressing subversive questions of masculinity, many of them directed at his late Texan father.
Mac seizes on the fact that his father corresponded with dozens of Australian women while he served in the Vietnam War. (Mac happened upon dozens of letters women sent after his father placed a newspaper ad seeking companionship in Sydney for his R&R stay.)
Mac also weaves Rodgers and Hammerstein's Carousel into the show, claiming it was his father's favorite movie musical. Mac is appalled at the musical seemingly condoning domestic abuse, yet he longs for its plot device of allowing a dead man to come back to Earth for one day to right the wrongs he caused.
Like the hanging stars in the Carousel film, letters addressed to Mac's dad float above Courtney O'Neill's clever paper-filled set. When the letters rain down on Mac, it's one of the show's funniest moments.
Admitting that his costume is less of his typical radical drag than an idea of one dreamed up by the patriarchy of his father's relatives, Mac goes about exploring society's condoned misogyny as he explicitly questions some of his father's more perplexing actions-the constant belittlement of anything feminine and the emotional lurch he created by giving hope to so many Australian women.
Metzgar does a good job of keeping interest through Mac's constant digressions and annotations throughout the show. Mac would have been even more effective if his energy didn't seem to lag in his many breathy and angrily exasperated sighs.
Mac could also have brushed up his dramaturgy, since there is no mention of the play that inspired Carousel (Ferenc Molnar's Liliom), which has a far less forgiving outcome for its anti-hero abuser than Rodgers and Hammerstein's version known as Billy Bigelow.
But aside from these qualms, The Young Ladies of... is a thoughtful and enjoyable show that should resonate with any gay man who has butch fathers known for their military service, riding motorcycles, or membership in the National Rifle Association (hey, that's me, too).

Subject: Theater

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Mac, Taylor

Company / organization: Name: About Face Theatre; NAICS: 711110

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: The Young Ladies of...

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 24

Issue: 5

Pages: 16

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2008

Publication date: Oct 15, 2008

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Theater Review

ProQuest document ID: 432797080

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/young-ladies/docview/432797080/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Oct 15, 2008

Last updated: 2023-08-28

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Beyond the wall: LGBT police

Author: Keehnen, Owen

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/beyond-wall-lgbt-police/docview/432798194/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: It's a frustrating situation, but one which hopefully will be addressed soon. The sharing of ideas and finding solutions by interforce and cross-departmental communication is one way to hasten the progress. [Richardson] is excited that Chicago will host The 14th Annual Conference of LGBT Criminal Justice Professionals in 2010: "The conference should be huge. This year, it was in D.C. It brings together law enforcement professionals and GOAL members from all over the world.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=51&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2008-09-03&amp;atitle=Beyond+the+wall%3A+LGBT+police&amp;au=Keehnen%2C+Owen&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=51&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2008-09-03&amp;atitle=Beyond+the+wall%3A+LGBT+police&amp;au=Keehnen%2C+Owen&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Headnote This is the conclusion of a two-part look at Chicago's LGBT police officers.
LGPA-GOAL (Lesbian & Gay Police AssociationGay Officers Action League) President Richardson has expressed her pride that LGPA-GOAL has helped increase the number of liaisons: "There was only one before and now there are three-Jose Rios in the 23rd District, Marty Ridge at the CPD Headquarters at 35th and Michigan, and I'm the liaison for the 20th."
Liaison officers are selected through the CPD, with some imput from LGPA-GOAL. It is an integral part of building mutual respect and understanding and facilitating communication between the department and the GLBT community. Richardson said, "There are certain situations that a GLBT person may feel uncomfortable speaking to a straight officer or may feel the need to go to a GLBT officer with a complaint or concern. Additionally, the liaison communicates LGBT issues or concerns to their LGBT community within their area or communicates the GLBT community's concerns to the department."
Ridge elaborated on the duties of the position: "We work on training, community outreach, anything that has to do with a GLBT hate crime, any kind of domestic violence. Basically, anything that has to do with the police and the GLBT community. We've also been trying to do community outreach to youth agencies city wide."
Richardson is hopeful that there will be more liaisons in the near future. "We are hoping to get South and West Side liaisons. I feel there is not enough attention focused on the LGBT communities in those areas."
According to Ridge, "We are trying to get them in every district or at least a contact in every district. The problem we're having is manpower shortages so a lot of us are being detailed to other things. Everything is on budget, need, and manpower restraints. There's a lot of politics."
The situation illustrates some of the ongoing frustrations faced by LGPA-GOAL, Richardson explained: "We don't get resistance. We get-it's gonna happen, We're working on it. There is a willingness, but there is always an excuse be it resources or manpower. That sort of thing seems to hold back our cause. Those videos seem a good sign that things are headed in the right direction. It cost a lot of money to make those so for them to invest in them is something. However, our overall goal is to get some sort of curriculum into the academy for recruits regarding the GLBT community. By way of a plan of action, we have to keep meeting with them, keep reminding them that we're here and we have this agenda. Training is difficult. We ask for it to happen from the top down because that's where you need to go with training. It's a lot of money because you have to take officers off their jobs, send them in, get them trained..."
Ridge added that "[a] lot of things we've been trying to push are due to an Amnesty Internatonal article from a couple years ago putting the Chicago Police Department at the top of the list for mistreatment of the GLBT community citing several instances that are still under investigation. It was part of the reason our first deputy at the time, Dana Starks, pulled Jamie, Jose and myself together and said, 'This is a problem. We need to fix it.'
"So we talked about getting liaisons and making them citywide and about the need for community outreach. The problem is it is not a major problem for the department right now. We're working on homicides, aggravated batteries, gangs and drugs take precedence which is totally understandable. So you can see where LGBT issues might take a backseat. However, it doesn't change the fact that there are issues out there and things that need to be taken care of. We're taking baby steps. Sometimes baby steps are better than no steps."
It's a frustrating situation, but one which hopefully will be addressed soon. The sharing of ideas and finding solutions by interforce and cross-departmental communication is one way to hasten the progress. Richardson is excited that Chicago will host The 14th Annual Conference of LGBT Criminal Justice Professionals in 2010: "The conference should be huge. This year, it was in D.C. It brings together law enforcement professionals and GOAL members from all over the world. Also attending are also those who support the organization and those who are curious about it-some straight officers, straight politicians, and interested parties. It brings together officers, department chiefs, mayors and committeemen, and makes them aware of all the things other departments are doing to improve LGBT relations. People come and think, 'What they're doing is a great idea. This is something we should be doing with the GLBT community' or 'Oh no, we're behind the times'. They come away with ideas for change and improvement."
LGPA-GOAL makes it easier for officers to be out, but there is still a long way to go. Richardson explained, "There are a lot of members who are closeted and won't come out, especially on the South and West sides. They are terrified over what they might face from co-workers or even bosses. It's a dilemma. What oftentimes happens is they come out and then get transfered. Things get swept under the rug and nothing is really accomplished. Most people don't want to take all that on or deal with it every day at work. But, there are also a lot of people who have been out since they came on and have never had a problem. Personally, I got some jeers and jokes behind my back, but no one has ever messed with me or my job because of my sexual identity."
The greatest problems Ridge faced were in his own mind. "I wanted to be on the force since I was a kid and had an opportunity to join the department in the mid-'80s, but fears and problems coming to terms with my sexuality kept me from doing it. I wound up going into the construction field for 16 years. Another opportunity to join the department came up about 12 years ago and, after coming to terms with who I was and having had already been an "out" construction worker with no problems, I was ready to be an "out" police officer. ... Our sexuality does not define us-it is just a small part of who we are. I am a father, a brother, a son, a friend, and a police officer who just happens to be gay." In the academy Ridge was voted the officer people most wanted to work with.
Likewise, Lipman never had much of a problem. "I never sensed that being out has caused me any problems. In years past I was told of comments that were made about my lifestyle that were less than favorable. It's helpful when you reach a point in your life where you pity people for their ignorance rather than become intimidated by it. At this point, I am a well-respected supervisor and for police officers that seems to outweigh other considerations. Of course, there is safety in rank and I would not assume that some officers do not suffer discrimination and harassment. It becomes the responsibility of those gay and lesbian officers who have attained rank to protect them from any unfair treatment."
Ridge agreed. "We want to be there for our fellow officers that are out and for those that still remain in the closet," he said. "We also want to show the Department and society that GLBT citizens and police officers are just like everyone else-and also just a little different. How boring life would be if we were all the same. The biggest way we can help is by just being out on a daily basis. It's so important to just be ourselves. We're trying to extend that through trainings, videos, lectures or outreach and by just being good examples."
Sidebar GOAL at the 2007 Pride Parade. Photo by Robb Olson
Sidebar The first part of this article can be found in the Aug. 20 issue of Windy City Times and online at www.WindyCityMediaGroup.com.

Subject: Police; Gays & lesbians; Associations; Memberships

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Beyond the wall: LGBT police

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 23

Issue: 51

Pages: 8

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2008

Publication date: Sep 3, 2008

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 432798194

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/beyond-wall-lgbt-police/docview/432798194/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Sep 3, 2008

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Del Martin dies

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/del-martin-dies/docview/432798046/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "It's impossible to overstate [Del Martin]'s importance in the struggle for LGBT rights and dignity," said Lambda Legal Senior Counsel Jennifer C. Pizer. "When she and [Phyllis Lyon] started Daughters of Bilitis, they were nearly alone in Joe McCarthy's America. ... Everything we've accomplished-marriage rights, anti-discrimination protections in the workplace, even the ability to visit our partners in the hospital-owes a vast debt to her work and example."

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=51&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2008-09-03&amp;atitle=Del+Martin+dies&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=51&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2008-09-03&amp;atitle=Del+Martin+dies&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Del Martin-the legendary lesbian activist who married her lover of 55 years, Phyllis Lyon, June 16 in California-died Aug. 27 in San Francisco, Calif., according to a release from the National Center for Lesbian Rights (NCLR). Martin was 87.
Martin and Lyon met in Seattle in 1950 and formally became partners three years later. In 1955, they were among those who started the Daughters of Bilitis, the first lesbian rights organization. The following year, they launched The Ladder, the first widely circulated national newsletter in the United States.
Years later, Martin was the first out lesbian elected to the board of the National Organization of Women (NOW), according to the NCLR release. In 1971, she urged the board to pass a resolution that made lesbian issues feminist topics.
In 1972, Martin and Lyon co-founded the Alice B. Toklas Democratic Club, the first gay political club in the United States, according to The San Francisco Chronicle. Expanding into the area of domestic violence, Martin published the book Battered Wives in 1976.
In 1995, Martin was a delegate to the White House Conference on Aging.
When Martin and Lyon wed this year, San Francisco Mayor Gavin Newsom, who officiated the wedding, recognized them as the first gay couple to legally exchange vows in the city, The Mercury News reported. They previously wed in 2004, but the courts overturned that marriage.
Innumerable politicians and LGBT organizations noted Martin's passing. "Today the LGBT movement lost a real hero," said Kate Kendell, NCLR's executive director, in the organization's statement. "For all of Del's life, she was an activist and organizer even before we knew what those terms meant."
In another statement, Human Rights President Joe Solmonese said, "The lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community has lost one of its bravest and most admired activists. Del Martin dared for decades to fight to marry her beloved Phyllis, and by doing so became an iconic hero the LGBT community. Her death is a great loss to all of us, but her life is an inspiration."
"It's impossible to overstate Del's importance in the struggle for LGBT rights and dignity," said Lambda Legal Senior Counsel Jennifer C. Pizer. "When she and Phyllis started Daughters of Bilitis, they were nearly alone in Joe McCarthy's America. ... Everything we've accomplished-marriage rights, anti-discrimination protections in the workplace, even the ability to visit our partners in the hospital-owes a vast debt to her work and example."
Rep. Tammy Baldwin, D-Wis., the only out lesbian in the U.S. Congress, said that "Del Martin holds a place of honor in the pantheon of American civil rights leaders. She was a hero and a role model to me and countless other LGBT women and men who seek nothing more and nothing less than full equality. I offer my deep sympathies to her beloved wife, Phyllis, and pledge to carry on the work that they began."
Besides Lyon, Martin is survived by several relatives, including daughter Kendra Mon, sonin-law Eugene Lane, granddaughter Lorraine Mon, grandson Kevin Mon and sister-in-law Patricia Lyon.
Gifts can be made to honor Martin's life and commitment, and to defeat the California marriage ban, through NCLR's "No On 8" PAC at www.nclrights.org/No0n8. A public memorial and tribute celebrating Martin's life will be planned in the next several weeks.
Sidebar Del Martin (left) and Phyllis Lyon cut a cake in honor of Daughters of Bilitis at a 2005 Gerber/Hart Library benefit in Chicago. Photo by Mel Ferrand
Sidebar Del Martin (left) and Phyllis Lyon with Chicagoan Chuck Renslow at a 2005 Gerber/Hart Library benefit in Chicago. Photo by Mel Ferrand

Subject: Deaths

People: Martin, Del

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Del Martin dies

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 23

Issue: 51

Pages: 1,4

Number of pages: 2

Publication year: 2008

Publication date: Sep 3, 2008

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgb tq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 432798046

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/del-martin-dies/docview/432798046/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Sep 3, 2008

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Anita Alvarez holds Pride reception

Author: Garcia, Emmanuel

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/anita-alvarez-holds-pride-reception/docview/432801218/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [Anita Alvarez] took time out from greeting supporters like Chicago Alderman Tom Tunney Metropolitan Water Reclamation Commissioner Debra Shore and Illinois State Representative Greg Harris to share her commitment to the LGBT community. "I started in this office wanting to help people and that's pretty much why I stayed. As far as the LGBT community I've handled cases of domestic violence, sometimes I think people forget that is an issue as well in this community, and it is an issue.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=41&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=63&amp;date=2008-06-25&amp;atitle=Anita+Alvarez+holds+Pride+reception&amp;au=Garcia%2C+Emmanuel&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=41&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=63&amp;date=2008-06-25&amp;atitle=Anita+Alvarez+holds+Pride+reception&amp;au=Garcia%2C+Emmanuel&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   A group of host members held a Pride Reception at Sidetrack in support of Anita Alvarez (in red in the picture directly above) in the general election for Cook County state's attorney.
In Feb. Alvarez became the first woman and the first Latino to win the Democratic nomination for Cook County state's attorney. In November Alvarez is will run against Rep. Candidate Cook County Commissioner Tony Peraica.
Alvarez took time out from greeting supporters like Chicago Alderman Tom Tunney Metropolitan Water Reclamation Commissioner Debra Shore and Illinois State Representative Greg Harris to share her commitment to the LGBT community. "I started in this office wanting to help people and that's pretty much why I stayed. As far as the LGBT community I've handled cases of domestic violence, sometimes I think people forget that is an issue as well in this community, and it is an issue. I've handled cases from this particular community and those cases need to have special attention, they need people to be sensitive to what those cases entail, the general public forgets that it's an issue."
Debra Shore, commissioner of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District, said, "It will be groundbreaking to elect a qualified woman, minority woman at that for state's attorney. Its so important that she support our community." Host Elizabeth Bautista added a different point of view, "One of the things for me is that we get all of those perspectives, when she is elected to determine hate crimes and what direction we are going to take with those decisions. That's why it's important to support her right now and let her know that we are here. We are professionals and live everyday lives like every other Illinois citizen."
Speaking about a possible historic Illinois win in the November Presidential election Alvarez said, "It is very exciting, just the energy that that election has generated not just Barack [Obama] but also Hillary [Clinton] for Hillary running and going as far as she did. Particularly the younger voters, they got interested, got excited and energized I think that's good for all of us. I think coming from Illinois it's special. Its nice that we've been able to make that impact not just locally but nationally."
Alvarez will march in the 39th Annual Chicago Pride Parade for the first time Sun., June 29.

Subject: Attorneys; Gays & lesbians; Transgender persons; Special events

People: Alvarez, Anita

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Anita Alvarez holds Pride reception

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 23

Issue: 41

Pages: 63

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2008

Publication date: Jun 25, 2008

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 432801218

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/anita-alvarez-holds-pride-reception/docview/432801218/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jun 25, 2008

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

30 UNDER THIRTY 2008

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/30-under-thirty-2008/docview/432798812/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: At age 20, [LIZ MARR] and her friend R.J. Sarna started a group called Pride Gathering, which threw picnics in the suburbs. At age 26, Marr decided to reform the group and make it bigger with more of a purpose. With the help of her friends, lead photographer Nick Miller, lead promoter Brad Stone, co-founder R.J.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=41&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=33&amp;date=2008-06-25&amp;atitle=30+UNDER+THIRTY+2008&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=41&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=33&amp;date=2008-06-25&amp;atitle=30+UNDER+THIRTY+2008&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: CHRIS JESSUP
21, CIVIL-UNIONS ADVOCATE
Chris Jessup, 21, a native of Roswell, N. M., came to Chicago in June 2005 after graduating from Robert H. Goddard High School.
Jessup currently attends DePaul University, where he just completed his third year as an undergraduate student double majoring in political science and women's and gender studies with concentrations in public policy and social justice. He is seeking a minor in LGBT studies. He was recently accepted into the women's and gender studies five-year Bachelor's and Master's program, and will start graduate studies this fall.
He is a co-founder and lead organizer of the Web site, Civilunionsillinois.org., which was born out of the grassroots efforts of over 8,000 young Illinoisans on campuses across the state who want a better life for themselves, as well as a more just and progressive Illinois.
Inspired by these young people who came together online to support equality and fairness, CivilUnionsIllinois.org works in conjunction with Equality Illinois, the ACLU, Lambda Legal, Equal Marriage Illinois, Stonewall Democrats, Young College Democrats, Log Cabin Republicans, Parents and Friends of Lesbians and Gays, Human Rights Campaign and Gill Action Fund to promote civil unions in Illinois.
CivilUnionsIllinois.org is dedicated to generating grassroots support for Illinois House Bill 1826, which would provide committed opposite-sex, same-sex and senior couples with basic, fundamental rights under state law. Whether on college campuses, online forums or the main streets of Illinois towns, CivilUnionsIllinois.org is mobilizing and educating voters to support equality and fairness. As lead organizer, Chris speaks to multiple student and senior groups and others interested in marriage equality and civil unions about the importance of civil unions in Illinois.
DID YOU KNOW? Chris is the oldest of five and is a member of Delta Tau Delta International Fraternity, Iota Alpha Chapter.
JEN RUDE
28, ASSOCIATE PASTOR
Jen Rude is a 28-year-old Pi- sces. She knows all the 50 states in alphabetical order and has lived in six of them, having moved to Chi- cago three years ago. Although as a child she aspired to be the first woman president of the United States, she currently serves as associate pastor at Resur- rection Lutheran Church in Lakeview and on the Youth Outreach Team at The Night Ministry (working with young people who are experiencing homelessness and queer youth). Rude was the 12th "extraordinarily" ordained queer Lutheran pastor in November 2007. She graduated from Augustana College in South Dakota, and then thought she would try a more progressive and queer-friendly area of the country. In Berkeley, CaL, she earned her Master's from Pacific School of Religion and learned why the city is affectionately nicknamed "Bezerkeley." Her favorite things about Chicago include the lake, summer festivals, public transit and Midwestern friendliness.
DID YOU KNOW? A childhood gymnast, Rude has been sighted more than once doing cartwheels on the streets of Chicago. Her first job was at Dairy Queen and she continues to love ice cream and all things sugary. As for her childhood, although she doesn't remember it, surely her subconscious is still working through the trauma of the time when she was two and a half years old and she slept through the whole night with a dead mouse in the foot of her pajamas. She is not a fan of animals to this day.
PATRICIA POSEY
22, HOMELESS-YOUTH ACTIVIST
Patricia Posey, 22, was born and raised in Chicago's South Side in a single-parent home. Although both her mother and father were figures throughout her life, she faced serious trails alone. Posey attended Hyde Park High School from 1999 to 2004. She repeated her senior year due to the harsh realities of living an openly gay life. In November 2004, she became permanently homeless after her mother discovered she was a lesbian. In turn, she moved into a transitional shelter that became her home for the next four years. In January 2004, she was elected the GLBTQ chair of the National Network for Youth policy board. Posey served for two years before her advancement to the executive board. She is currently working for the state of Illinois and continues her quest to end youth homelessness.
DID YOU KNOW? Posey has started attending college. She participates in extracurricular activities, including college basketball.
MICHAEL VINSON
23, SCHOLAR
Michael L. Vinson, 23, is a Jackie Robinson Foundation Scholar and the African-American Fellow at Steppenwolf Theatre Company. A graduate of Harvard University, where he received his bachelor's in government, Vinson was an active member of the John F. Kennedy Institute of Politics and served as the first openly gay president of the Kuumba Singers, an ethnically diverse choir that specializes in gospel, African folk songs and Negro spirituals. As president, he was able to secure the Rev. Peter J. Gomes, Plummer Professor of Christian Morals and Pusey Minister in the Memorial Church, to serve as a faculty advisor.
Additionally, Michael co-founded Blackout, a safe, confidential space for exploring issues of sexuality and gender for African-American students. A venue for soulful, affirming conversation, BlackOut gave students (whether out of the closet or not) an opportunity to dialogue with each other about the unique challenges gay, transgender, and questioning AfricanAmerican young people face.
DID YOU KNOW? A native of Atlanta, Ga., Vinson is still trying to memorize the "L" map, accept the horrendous winter weather and embrace the Cubs (not the Sox). He witnessed the end of "the curse" in Boston-perhaps he can work a little magic in Chicago, as well.
RAY PRATHER
27, ATTORNEY
Ray Prather, 27, is the owner of Prath- er Law Office, a law firm dedicated to estate planning, probate and related litigation. His prac- tice includes help- ing couples and individuals achieve their diverse estate planning and chari- table giving goals. Prather presented and participated in panels relating to estate planning including "Estate Planning for LGBT Couples" at Howard Brown, "Money Matters Workshop: Financial and Estate Planning" at Center on Halsted and "Take the Power Symposium: Strategies for Life and Financial Planning" for Lambda Legal.
Prather has been a key leadership volunteer with Lambda Legal for the last two years. He began in 2006 as a legal intern in the Midwest Regional Office, where he assisted Lambda attorneys on issues related to freedom of speech (providing research for Lambda Legal's amicus curiae brief in the "Bong hits 4 Jesus" case, Morse v. Frederick, before the U.S. Supreme Court), equal protection and due process in the Iowa marriage case and sexual orientation discrimination in the workplace. He is a founding member of Lambda's Chicago Leadership Council and has organized Lambda Legal's Market Days presence last year, as well as this August.
He was recently appointed to Lambda Legal's National Planned Giving Council and is serving his second year as a member of the Illinois State Bar Association's Standing Committee on Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity, where he is on the awards subcommittee. Ray graduated from Augustana College with a degree in accounting and received his J.D. from the DePaul University College of Law. Ray's prior experience includes clerking for Supervising Judge Drella Savage in the Domestic Relations Division of Cook County Circuit Court.
DID YOU KNOW? Prather ran cross country and track in college and recently took up cooking (including brunch involving fried oyster omelets).
GABRIELA ZAPATA
25, COUNSELOR/MUSICIAN
Gabriela Zapata is a 25-year-old queer Latina who moved to Chicago in 2005. She has worked in the HIV field since then as a case manager, preven- tion counselor and as co-found- er of the Advoca- cy Committee at Chicago House. She is very ac- tive in her com- munity, and was a central organizer of Ladyfest Chicago 2007, a grassroots festival celebrating women in activism and the arts that raised over $3,000 for the Chicago Women's Health Center and Rape Victims Advocates.
Zapata plays the saxophone and trumpet, and sings in local queer feminist punk band The Pussy Pirates, who have performed to raise money and awareness for activist organizations, including HIV/AIDS Resource Center and Food Not Bombs. The Pussy Pirates enjoy support from Riot Grrrl Ink, the largest LGBTQ label in the world, and are looking forward to releasing their second full-length album in the fall. She has been playing classical piano since she was 3, and counts it among her most favorite things to do. Her other passions include nature, poetry, socialjustice, pizza, religion, body modification, literature, travel, language, riding her bike, recycling, animal rights, solitude, long-boarding and chocolate.
DID YOU KNOW? Gabriela loves her neighborhood, where she lives with her long term companion and is the proud mother of two doggies who brighten her every day with their fiendish humor and devilish talents.
ANNIE GREGORY
28, GRANT AND CONTRACT MANAGER
Annie Gregory, 28, currently is the manager of grant and con- tract compli- ance at Howard Brown Health Center. In this role, she helps ensure Howard Brown's compliance with fiscal, legal and programmatic requirements. In addition, she improves the lives of LGBT people by developing and maintaining grants and programs for vital health and wellness services. She has a particular interest in the development of programs addressing the health disparities experienced by lesbians, racial/ethnic minorities and transgender persons.
A 2005 graduate of Depaul University College of Law, she was a board member of DePaul's Public Interest Law Association and the DePaul Outlaws. She was also a member of the DePaul Journal of Sports Law and Contemporary Problems, an academic journal in which she published an article about homophobia and discrimination based on sexual orientation in athletics.
DID YOU KNOW? Annie's first job was detassling corn in rural Illinois when she was 14.
LIESEL S. FISCHER
28, ARTIST
Liesel S. Fischer, 28, has been advocating for LGBT rights for over a decade. Born prematurely on a bus while her parents were vacationing in Italy, Fischer was already fighting as she entered into the world. She feels that it is only natural for her to continue advocating for the issues she believes in.
Originally from Iowa, she has lived and traveled abroad extensively, and became proficient in German while studying at the University of Lüneburg in German.
Fischer is now a Chicago artist who has donated dozens of pieces to various charitable organizations, including the Center on Halsted, Howard Brown Health Center, Heartland Alliance's annual Art Against AIDS event and the Tri-State AIDS Christmas Project.
She has been a Junior Board member with Heartland Alliance for Human Needs & Human Rights since 2005, and was recently elected to serve as the Board's Benefits Chair/Vice President. She acted as Art Chair for Heartland Alliance's 2008 Art Against AIDS event, which became the most successful event in the event's history. She has been an active volunteer with several local and national LGBT supportive political campaigns, and is currently a member of Human Rights Campaign and Stonewall Democrats.
Fischer also participated with her softball team in the 2006 Chicago Gay Games. Currently, she is working on her doctorate in clinical psychology, with an emphasis on diversity, gender and LGBT issues.
DID YOU KNOW? Fischer also volunteers as an events coordinator for Tellofilms.com, which is a lesbian entertainment Web company based in Chicago.
WILL WHITE
27, SINGER
Will White, 27, was born in Punta Gorda, Fla., on the Gulf-south of Tampa and Sarasota.
After his partner Matt and his wonderful family, his number-one passion is singing, although he does enjoy good friends and great wine whenever possible! He has been truly blessed to work with the Chicago Gay Men's Chorus over the past five years. Interestingly enough, he has been featured in leading female roles with CGMC so much that authence members still have a hard time believing he's actually a man! What we endure for our love of the theater. Let's face it, roles are tough to find when you're an upper tenor who looks good in a dress!
White actually has been out and proud since the age of 14. As the only out gay student in his high school, Will fought for the first LGBT student organization, which was founded upon his graduation. Since moving to Chicago, Will has also broken barriers in the workplace. While working as the faculty coordinator at Northwestern University's law school, he urged his department to become "safe-space certified"; those spaces let gay students know where they can turn for support.
White would like to thank Windy City Times for this honor and thanks Lee Neubecker for his support and nomination. Most importantly, he gratefully acknowledges the work of the Chicago Gay Men's Chorus and his friend Patrick Sinozich, CGMC's artistic director.
DID YOU KNOW? White moved to Chicago in 2002 when the heat of the South became too much to bear.
LIZ MARR
26, ROCKINPRIDE CO-FOUNDER
R.J. SARNA
26, ROCKINPRIDE CO-FOUNDER
At age 20, Liz Marr and her friend R.J. Sarna started a group called Pride Gathering, which threw picnics in the suburbs. At age 26, Marr decided to reform the group and make it bigger with more of a purpose. With the help of her friends, lead photographer Nick Miller, lead promoter Brad Stone, co-founder R.J. Sarna and the newest member, her fiancé, photographer Brittany Whittemore, they started making a Myspace site that provided info on youth groups, gay friendly businesses, gay friendly groups and events. Rockin Pride also helps with clubs and groups starting out in the suburbs that are open to the LGBT community and want to spread the word. R.J. Sarna, 26, has always felt a desire to promote LGBT equality and awareness. At Loyola University Chicago, his interest piqued in the campus LGBT organization, where he remained active in as an undergraduate and co-chaired as a senior. During his tenure, he organized fundraisers and events, helped bring the AIDS Quilt to campus, participated in the Day of Silence and invited high-profile speakers like Danny Roberts from "Real World: New Orleans" and Kyan Douglas from "Queer Eye for the Straight Guy" to speak about their experiences. In addition to his work with Rockin Pride and preparing for the Dental Admissions Test (DAT), Sarna co-hosted a podcast, the Daily4Play, that combined his two passions-health care and the LGBT community.
DID YOU KNOW? Sarna hopes to enter dental school in the fall of 2009, and eventually do research and cater his practice to a largely LGBT clientele.
ERNETTA PROCTER
23, PERFORMANCE ARTIST
Every day is a prosperous day for artist and author Emetta Procter, 23. Better known as "Phenomenon" by the performance arts community, she has stunned many onlookers with her persistence and progression. In 2007, her performance pieces of poetry were released on audio entitled "Hood Politics," causing a riotous reaction from suburbia due to the urban reality depicted in her work.
This revolutionary continues to use her poised persona and anointed gift for poetry as a spoken-word artist to educate and mentor at risk youth. Along with pursuing a career in English and communications, the youthful powerhouse has dedicated her time and talent to many nonprofit agencies for positive causes. From the Forces of Nature Dance Company and 21 Brothers Organization of Masons and Eastern Stars, to the Department Of Children and Family Services Transitional Homes, Procter is on a mission.
The 2007 Truth award for best poet was issued to the Verbal Balance Poetry Ensemble, in which Procter is a neophyte and active member. This touring artist and slam champion also finds time in her schedule to teach performance poetry for the Art Music Poetry Program.
Today, she continues to work toward her personal goals, such as the release of her first book, The Lesbian Chronicles, which exposes the urban lesbian lifestyle of African-American women. She also continues to work toward being a positive role model for LGBT and AfricanAmerican youth.
DID YOU KNOW? She will stampede children and helpless pets, just to catch an ice cream truck. She's not proud of it but, hey, it's life. Ice cream ROCKS!
JULIEN JACQUET
30, GAY GAMES VOLUNTEER
Julien Jacquet, 30 (29 at the time he was nominated), is a French citizen permanently living in Chicago since 2004. He was the co-chief informa- tion officer of the Chicago Gay Games. Thanks to a network of some of the best LGBTA professionals and volunteers in Chicago and around the world, he successfully led the delivery of the technology that supported the event.
Jacquet credits the great spirit of participation, inclusion and personal best found in all the partners and volunteers of the Gay Games for the success of the event. He hopes to reconnect with these amazing LGBT key players in a similar context as he aspires to work for the Chicago 2016 Olympics once done with his master's.
He is a graduate from Sorbonne University, the Ecole Superieure d'Informatique-Electronique-Automatique and the Illinois Institute of Technology, and is a current student at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University.
Jacquet is also the co-chair and co-founder of the LGBT network of his company, the world's fifth-largest investment bank, where he is currently employed in the Chicago financial market section as the ranking technology officer. With his group, he participated in diversity events in Edinburgh, Scotland, and has encouraged senior management to tap into their diverse workforce with the help of organizations such as Stonewall UK.
He has lived and worked in London, Sydney, Hong-Kong, Tokyo and Paris.
He participated in programs run by the AIDS Council of New South Wales (ACON) in Australia and worked as a volunteer for the Sydney 2002 Gay Games.
DID YOU KNOW? A fun, unexpected thing happened to Jacquet at the closing ceremony of the Gay Games. After a rehearsal with Mayor Daley and other staff and volunteers, he enjoyed a dance with one of his friends to the music of Cyndi Lauper, who was doing her own rehearsal in the empty stadium.
MYRL BEAM
25, TRANS-YOUTH WORKER
Myrl Beam, 25, is a self-described "transfaggot" youth worker in the struggle. He currently works as the transgender care coordinator at Howard Brown Health Center, working primarily as a case manager in the daily drop-in program with trans and gender non-conforming youth experiencing homelessness.
Beam is also very involved in anti-violence and social-justice activism, currently working with the Chicago Queer Transformative Justice Working Group and providing trainings and workshops throughout Chicago.
DID YOU KNOW? A graduate of Oberlin College, Beam enjoys Bravo reality television, gardening on his back porch and being the godparent of a chihuahua named Chanel.
ALI ABBAS
20, SCHOLAR/ACTIVIST
Ali Abbas is an American by way of Lebanon. He was born in the Western suburb of Carol Stream, Ill., after his parents fled their invaded home country. Abbas came out during his senior years of high school, and faced objection by his parents and alienation from the LGBT community. This inspired him to do volunteer work that focuses on raising awareness of LGBT issues on a global scale and raising awareness of hateful policies within the LGBT community.
In 2007, Abbas was named a Point Foundation Scholar. The Point Foundation is the country's largest publicly supported organization that grants scholarships to LGBT students.
Abbas is a philosophy major. His areas of interest range from inter-community identity politics, economic analysis and foreign policy. A student at DePaul University, his current projects include a piece on "The Boondocks," using the television show as a case study for the analysis of communities and applying that to the current identity crisis facing the LGBTQ community in terms of marriage "equality." Another project focuses on ending the occupation of Palestine and Iraq and working towards economic equality in trans-continental labor industries.
Abbas is also a published writer. His work, which aims to advocate for greater acceptance within the LGBT community, among other issues, has appeared in several local newspapers.
DID YOU KNOW? He is a fan of "The Boondocks" and Pugs. He also secretly makes digital music in his free time.
TAYLOR CASEY
25, TRANS YOUTH ADVOCATE
Taylor Casey, 25, has been with Broadway Youth Center (BYC) a year now, working on the Life Skills project. Life Skills is an HIV Intervention for young transgender women, which Taylor co-facilitates and does massive recruitment and retention work for.
Since being at BYC, Casey has become even more involved, serving on numerous community committees, doing speaking engagements and co-facilitating trans-inclusion trainings for schools, businesses and other non-profits. In addition, she has become an integral part of the Trans Youth Resources and Advocacy (TYRA) drop-in team, providing a weekly safe space for trans youth of all varieties to come, socialize and build community together. Her work, her passion and her commitment have made her a central figure in Chicago's LGBTQ youth community. Her mission, within all of this work, is to promote healthy attitudes about gender expression, including the idea that one does not have to aim to "become" a woman or a man-that being trans (or anywhere along the wonderful gender spectrum) is beautiful all by itself.
DID YOU KNOW? Before Life Skills, Casey was very active within the LGBTQ community, serving as a mentor to many young trans people.
BETHANY MINOR
23, LCCP ADVISORY BOARD MEMBER
Bethany Minor is a 2008 graduate of Northwestern University, where she majored in history and political science, with a minor in Asian-American studies.
She is originally from Senatobia, Miss., but grew up in Memphis, Tenn. She has been a resident of Chicago for about two and a half years.
Minor was a counselor with the LGBT Center at Duke University in Durham, N.C., before moving to Chicago. She first became active in LGBT organizations in the Chicagoland area with the Rainbow Alliance at Northwestern. She served as social chair, which gave her the opportunity to get better acquainted with other collegiate LGBT organizations around Chicago, such as DePaul and Loyola. Continuing her social activities, she also has done promotional work throughout Chicago.
Beginning in the summer of 2006, she began a very productive relationship with the Lesbian Community Care Project (LCCP) as an intern. Since then, she has had the honor of spearheading outreach efforts for LCCP at events like Northalsted Market Days and the Andersonville Midsommarfest. She also served as a board member for the 2007 LCCP Ball, which is the largest event for LBT women in the Midwest. She has recently been asked to further her commitment to LBT women health issues in Chicago by joining the LCCP advisory board.
She plans to attend graduate school next year, where she hopes to pursue a degree that will allow her to continue her passion for advocacy work in women's health.
DID YOU KNOW? She has 10 tattoos and is planning her next one as you read this.
MADSEN MINAX
25, MUSICIAN
Madsen Minax, 25, is a multimedia artist, musician and activist. After growing up in the scenic woods of northern Michigan, he trained as a filmmaker at The School of the Art Institute of Chicago and classical quartet composer at Hogeschool voor Muziek en Technologie in Utrectht, The Netherlands.
Minax spends much of his time playing upright bass in the duet music project Actor Slash Model, utilizing songwriting and vaudevillian performance to address political issues, identity, queerness and kink. In addition to music performance, Actor Slash Model also collaborates in other media; the duo are currently producing an experimental documentary exploring trans and gender variant identities as they related to music and performance, wherein Minax is directing his first feature-length film, scheduled for completion in 2009.
The project has received two consecutive Chicago Artist Assistance Program grants through the Illinois Arts Council and Department of Cultural Affairs, as well as the Crossroads Fund Fire This Time Grant 2007.
Minax's films have screened nationally and internationally in cities including Chicago, New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Seattle, Berlin, Germany, Copenhagen, Denmark, Sydney and Perth, Australia.
His other current projects include co-organizing "Threat Level Queer Shorts," a bimonthly film and video-screening series to showcase independent work made by queer filmmakers internationally. He also works with Beyondmedia Education as a videographer and editor with a current focus in HIV/AIDS prevention education.
DID YOU KNOW? Minax is an active participant in Chicago leather culture, working hard to bridge the gap between gay male leather culture and the interrelated issues of kink in queemess and trans identity through volunteer work and workshop facilitation. Minax is also a volunteer and member of The Leather Archives and Museum in Chicago.
JASMINE THURMOND
22, TUTOR/RADIO CO-HOST
Jasmine Thurmond, 22, is a Chicago native. She recently made her return to the city after a two-year residency in Jackson, Miss. As a student at Jackson State University, she dedicated her leisure time to the organization IamSeven, which focuses on exposing underprivileged youth to art culture.
Now residing in Chicago, Thurmond has a personal academic tutoring small business for youth in pre-kindergarten through 12th grades, where she seeks to not only educate youth, but also positively guide them into success. She is a student at Chicago State University, where she is an avid volunteer in the Gwendolyn Brooks Writing Center and vice-president of the LGBTQ organization Helping Educate Regarding Orientation (HERO). She is fulfilling a longtime dream of hers as she wears the hat of "G-Spot Radio Show" co-host. The "G-Spot" is an Internet radio show geared towards an authence of LGBTQQ women. On the show, Thurmond focuses on discussing issues that are relevant to the women of her community, while also including pertinent topics from popular culture.
DID YOU KNOW? In her free time, she volunteers at the Center on Halsted, performs at Pow Wow Poetry Night and attends live music
ANDRE BROWN
25, HIV-PREVENTION COORDINATOR
Andre Brown is currently the Youth HIV Pre- vention Program Coordinator at the Broadway Youth Center (BYC). In his position, Brown works to provide HIV and STD testing, health education programming and a variety of outreach programs to young people ages 12 to 24 years old. He enjoys working with young people and finds the relationships he builds with them to be the most valuable and rewarding part of his job.
A native of Flint, Mich., Brown came to Chicago in 2007 after completing his Master's in public health at the University of North Carolina. He has been doing HIV prevention work since 2002, while a student at the University of Michigan. His travels to South Africa in 2003 to do HIV prevention work solidified his desire to dedicate his work to addressing the issues related to this disease.
DID YOU KNOW? Brown's secret passion in life is music. He enjoys listening to music (live and on CD), wants to learn the piano and wants to record an album.
LAURA VELASZQUEZ
29, ANTI-VIOLENCE ADVOCATE
Laura Velazquez started with Cen- ter on Halsted as the victim advoca- cy coordinator in 2004. Her 11 years of experience in anti-violence ad- vocacy includes her time as a vic- tim legal advocate at a domestic violence shelter and as a police officer in the Western suburbs, where she saw first-hand the legal issues faced by victims of violence. She has training certificates in both domestic violence and sexual assault crisis intervention, and is active nationally in prevention, education and outreach efforts that increase the awareness of violence issues in the LGBT community.
Velazquez received her law enforcement training in 2002 at the Illinois State Police Academy in Springfield, Ill., where she lived for 12 weeks of paramilitary instruction. Laura graduated as the recruit class vice president.
While serving as a police officer, she continued her fitness training and returned to boxing classes. Laura previously boxed at a gym where she and her best friend were the only females in class. During a boxing workout, Laura broke her "gun" hand, resulting in her leaving the force shortly after. That is when Laura left her hometown of Aurora and moved to Chicago.
DID YOU KNOW? In her free time, Velazquez enjoys cheering for the White Sox and Bears, is a music and movie buff that include classics, especially Audrey Hepburn features. If you have ever met her, she will shake your hand and may ask "How do you do?" in honor of Eliza Doolittle, Hepburn's character in "My Fair Lady."
TIMOTHY BECHTEL
29, CLIENT-SERVICES COORDINATOR
Fluent in Span- ish, Timothy Bechtel is cur- rently the client services coor- dinator for the Mental Health Program at the Center on Hal- sted, providing culturally compe- tent mental health services to the Center's Latino and English-speaking consumers. He serves as a full member of the Chicago Department of Public Health HIV Prevention and Planning Group, and he facilitates an ongoing support group for LGBT individuals with HIV.
Bechtel graduated with a master's in social service administration from the University of Chicago, where he interned at the Marjorie Kovler Center for the Treatment of Survivors of Torture and International Faces, two programs of Heartland Health Outreach that work with immigrants and political refugees. Tim also served in the Peace Corps for two years, working as a health promoter for the public school system in Guatemala. He is currently completing his hours for his license in clinical social work, which he is scheduled to receive by the end of this year.
DID YOU KNOW? Bechtel picked up the guitar about four years ago, and continues to struggle with it. Also, he has not paid for a haircut since high school!
DANIEL POHL
29, DISEASE INTERVENTION SPECIALIST
Since coming out to mostly not surprised and very supportive friends and family starting at age 15, Dan- iel Pohl, 29, has been involved in helping the LGBT community. After unsuccessful attempts to start the Rockford area's first GSA at Harlem High School and to convince Rockford's adult LGBT organization to host a youth group, he went on to be active in UIUC's queer community and, in 1999, co-founded the Coming Out Support Group for students there that endures to this day.
Shortly after graduation, Pohl was hired in October 2001 as an HIV/STD health educator at Howard Brown Health Center, where he continues to work in the field of prevention as manager of Disease Intervention Services. This program was created in partnership with the Chicago Department of Public Health as a response to increased rates of syphilis among men who have sex with men, and has evolved into a nationally recognized model of cooperation between a community-based organization and a health department. Day-to-day, he talks primarily with gay or bisexual men to find out if they have syphilis, HIV and/or other STDs and answers questions, gives information and encourages them to tell sexual partners or to allow him to do anonymous partner notification on their behalf. He has participated in technical assistance and cultural competency trainings with numerous health departments and national organizations and has been a contributor to research that highlights the program's successes, as well as its approach to using the internet to locate and inform sexual partners of potential exposure to STDs.
When he's not "stomping out syphilis," Pohl enjoys catching up with friends, da Cubs, playing Softball (go Elephants!) and spending quality time with Chad, Tussy and Ramen.
DID YOU KNOW? He loves both karaoke and skinny dipping, even though people cringe at both!
DEREK BRITTON
25, AIDS ADVOCATE
Derek Britton is a force to be reck- oned with in the LGBT community. His passion to in- crease awareness of the affect of HIV amongst his peers led him to become a found- ing member of the AIDS Foundation of Chicago (AFC) Junior Board. He has served as a reader on the Junior Board's executive committee and social and p~anning committee since its 2005 inception, and ako as vice president and acting president in 2007. Britton has been a contributor to many AFC events induding the AIDS Run/Walk, Wodd of Chocolate, and the Junior Board's own Blue Bash and Make a Statement: Design for the Cure. He has ako served on the benefit committee of Dance for Life Chicago since 2006.
Britton has ako prayed a hand in LGBT advocacy by co-creating HomosAreAHoot.com, an organization that creates opportunities for fun, cheeky and styhsh ways to give back to LGBT charities of choice. Currenfly, Campus Pride, PFLAG and The Point Foundation are beneficiaries.
DID YOU KNOW? In the professional world, Britton serves as the director of marketing for Chicago-based travel technology group. He is a graduate of London College of Communication, University of the Arts London and lives in Humboldt Park.
LISA KATONA
27, LCCP PATIENT NAVIGATOR
Lisa Katona has always been interested in the intersection between physical health, mental health and social jus- tice. Educated at the University of Michigan School of Social Work, Katona has training and experience working with a variety of LGBTQ-related issues, including individual and family clinical practice, gender issues, sexual health and domestic violence. Her interest in social justice and women's health began at Oberlin College, where she trained her college and community-based peers in women's health issues. In graduate school, Katona not only worked as a domestic violence counselor, but she also assisted the Intersex Society of North America in researching quality care for individuals receiving medical assistance, and was involved in a clinical preceptorship in sexual health through the University of Michigan Hospital.
Since her arrival to Chicago two years ago, she has been working at the Howard Brown Health Center. Initially, Katona worked as a case manager for individuals living with HIV, and is now the newest addition to the Lesbian Community Care Project (LCCP), as the patient navigator for the Illinois Breast and Cervical Cancer Program. Additionally, she is completing a two-year postgraduate fellowship with Live Oak, providing psychotherapy to individuals and families, as well as trainings to organizations and communities.
DID YOU KNOW? She got stuck in a tree in her own backyard, and the fire department had to be called to get her down.
SIMON STRIKEBACK
29, MUSICIAN AND TRANS ACTIVIST
Simon Daniel Fisher, or Simon Strikeback, grew up first in Rog- ers Park and later in a near northern suburb. He was a queer activ- ist in high school, creating a student support group and working with Better Existence with HIV (BEHIV) as a youth educator. While at DePaul University, he joined Lesbian Avengers, and in 1999, helped revitalize Camp Trans to protest transphobic policies in women-only spaces. Strikeback was a lead organizer with the project until 2005. After living at IDA, a queer rural community for three years, he returned to Chicago and co-created the trans performance duet Actor Slash Model, currently producing a documentary about trans and gender-variant musicians. This fall, Strikeback will begin graduate study in interdisciplinary humanities at the University of Chicago.
Strikeback is currently on tour with Actor Slash Model, gathering interviews for the film and playing shows across the Northeast. At the moment, he is probably trying to fit four people, three cameras, all of their belongings and a seven-foot upright bass into the car.
Other current projects include the zine "Bound to Struggle: Where Kink and Radical Politics Meet," which brings together the words and art of a diverse group of practitioners of both kink and radical politics. He also co-curates Threat Level, Chicago's bimonthly queer short film series that raises money for his and other Chicago-based trans-focused documentaries. He also is a core member of the Chicago Childcare Collective that offers free child-care to social justice organizations in the city.
DID YOU KNOW? His new favorite thing to imagine is how to re-create the 1930's phenomena, The Pansy Craze, a sociopolitical movement with a large base in Chicago. He suspects it will involve people of many different genders, booty dancing and a lot of pink.
HECTOR SALGADO
26, OUTREACH SPECIALIST
Hector Salgado is an outreach specialist for Project VIDA, where he has worked since 2003. There, Salgado created an outreach curriculum to increase the number of group participants and formed several collaborate relationships with various organizations to make sure prevention information and materials are provided at their venues. Salgado has also helped create curriculum and facilitated discussions with Project VIDA's youth group on topics such as gay history, HIV and dating violence. Prior to his work at Project VIDA, Salgado took part in Public Allies Chicago's Ally Apprenticeship Program, where he worked at the Greater Chicago Food Depository as their recruitment and retention specialist in the Community Kitchens Program.
Salgado has also served as president of the Latin American Student Organization and president of the Student Government Association at Richard J. Daley college, a college advisor for SERAS youth leadership group in Little Village and vice president of the District Wide Student Government Assocation. He is a member of the University of Illinois in Chicago's PRIDE program and has worked with the Oak Park Gay and Lesbian Association (OPALGA) to help organize the first Latino MSM retreat.
DID YOU KNOW? Salgado is working on his Bachelor's in political science with a minor in Latino studies at UIC, and has volunteered in various voter registration and youth organizing drives.
TOM KELLY
25, POLITICAL ORGANIZER
Tom Kelly has been a resident of Chicago for six years, after spending his first 18 in Stevensville, Mich. The oldest son of Tom and Sheila Kelly, he at- tended public schools and was very active in the Boy Scouts, earning his Eagle Scout badge. However, it was his interest in politics and public policy that brought him to Chicago, where he attended DePaul University.
While at DePaul University, Kelly was a member of the university's rugby team and DePaul College Democrats, among other activities. During his freshman year, he took Dr. Elizabeth Kelly's course, "Creating Change: LGBT Politics," which introduced him to LGBT policy and sparked his interest in LGBT equality issues. Dr. Kelly also encouraged him to take an internship on U.S. Rep. Rahm Emanuel's 2002 congressional campaign, which began his career in political campaigns.
Shortly after the 2002 congressional race, Kelly took a job with then State Sen. Barack Obama, who had recently announced his candidacy for the U.S. Senate. After working on the 2004 primary and general election staffs, he continued his work with Obama as an assistant to then political director Dan Shomon. This lasted until September 2005, when he began work as campaign manager for Assessor James M. Houlihan's re-election campaign.
During this time, he was accepted to the University of Oxford for a master's in social policy. While at Oxford, he focused on developing his understanding of gender and public health issues, and became active with both the Democrats Abroad UK and the Oxford University Stop AIDS campaign. In 2007, he graduated from Oxford after completing a thesis titled, "Understanding the Continental Divide: How do we explain the different developments between the American and Canadian systems for managing health risks."
In November 2007, Kelly returned to the United States to work on Obama's presidential campaign as a field organizer. Over the past few months, he has organized in Wisconsin, Ohio and Indiana, in addition to drafting a field plan for Equality Illinois and volunteering with the AIDS Foundation of Chicago.
DID YOU KNOW? Kelly will be leaving the Obama campaign shortly, as he has recently been accepted to Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government to pursue a Master's in public administration.
TYJUAN CRATIC
23, POLITICAL ACTIVIST
TyJuan Cratic, 23, born and raised in Chicago, attended John Hope College Prep and De La Salle Institute on the South Side. He started early in his life working for gay issues and a political agenda, lobbying while in high school for SB 101, the Human Rights Amendment in Illinois. This is where he got the first taste of political and legislative work that would benefit people he had never met.
Cratic began his studies at Southern Illinois University in Carbondale, majoring in political science. There, he soon became president of the SIU College Democrats. Appointed to the SIU Student Health Advisory Board, TyJuan, spent three years working to establish domestic-partner benefits for students and university employees. This was achieved in 2005, a great victory for the SIU LGBT community.
Later in 2005, after SIU's Chancellor made condemning comments about homosexuality, he was appointed to represent undergraduate students on the Provost GLBT Ad hoc Committee. As the only undergraduate student on this committee, he found it important to hold the university to the fire to change outdated policies.
Cratic was a part of recommending a change in university policies that blocked same-sex couples as live-in resident hall directors and establishing hate crime reporting after several hate crime situations occurred on campus. One of the recommendations he was truly proud of was paving the way for the SIU GLBT Resource Center.
In 2007, he was elected as the Illinois Federation of Political Affairs' vice president of political affairs, bringing the organization to fight for two political issues in Illinois: civil unions and lowering textbook cost for college students. On April 5, he was elected president. Cratic made civil unions one of the top legislative and political issues of his term, and established a grassroots campaign for four democratic congressional races in Illinois.
DID YOU KNOW? Cratic has taken one year away from SIU before graduation to work at a Chicago law firm.
TONY LEWIS
27, THEATER MASTERMIND
Tony Lewis was born in Louisville, Ky., to Bill and Mary Anne Lewis and has one older sister, Tricia. From messy fingerpaints and notebook doodles to angsty poetry, art has been a driving force for Lewis since his early years. Growing up, his cousins were his cast in yearly holiday productions (sometimes against their will). What started as little pageants grew as Tony did. Quality of scripts, sets and costumes were not lost on these shabby basement productions, and his family was always anticipating their little thespian's passion. His family has always been a huge influence on his life as an artist and gay man. He performed throughout high school, and when the time came for higher education, he wanted to continue to follow this driving passion in his life.
Lewis attended the Theatre Conservatory at Roosevelt University. During those four years of theater and life training, he grew as an artist and man. When graduation came, an idea began to formulate in his mind. He began to work on an adaptation of "A Midsummer Night's Dream." Gender changes, addition of an anti-gay marriage decree and alteration of Shakespeare's fairy-filled forest to a vagrant-filled "Boyshood" provided Tony a voice and message for the gay community. His youthful optimism told him he better get it produced with haste before gay marriage was legalized, so he and fellow Roosevelt alumni formed the theater company MidTangent Productions. For the past three years (currently in rehearsals for the fourth) MidTangent Productions has brought A Midsummer Night's Dream: A Queer Tale to the stage, along with other productions like Fascination, I Am Hamlet and @mosphere 54. With the support of over a hundred artists, designers and supporters, this dream was made a reality.
DID YOU KNOW? In addition to theater, Lewis is also a singer, choreographer, fiction writer and professional event planner.
AMY GREGORY
28, REGISTERED NURSE
Amy Gregory, 28, currently works to care for members of the LGBT community by providing world class medical care as part of the team of Howard Brown Health Center's John S. Baran Center for Medical Services. In this capacity, she provides expert and compassionate care for those living with HIV/AIDS and to all LGBT persons seeking comprehensive medical care at Howard Brown.
She graduated from the Depaul University College of Nursing in 2006, and is a member of Sigma Theta Tau, The National Honor Society of Nursing. Gregory is currently fulfilling requirements for the Family Nurse Practitioner program at DePaul University, and is set to graduate in June 2009. She hopes to continue her work in LGBT health field, especially women's and lesbian's health, STDs and HIV/AIDS.
DID YOU KNOW? Her "root" was when she developed a crush on Dottie Henson in the movie A League of Their Own when she was 12.
SPECIAL FUTURE:
Two local celebrities who have done the Chicago LGBT community proud are also being honored by Windy City Media Group:
RONNIE KROELL
25, MODEL AND 4+1 PRODUCTIONS FOUNDER
Ronnie Kroell, 25, is a political science major at the University of Illinois at Chicago. In addition to his passion for politics, he has a deep love for the arts. He has pursued acting and modeling for many years, and celebrated his most recent success as runner-up on BRAVO's "Make Me a Supermodel."
Kroell is a man with strong convictions, and has never allowed obstacles to stand in his way. Rather, he chooses to focus on the glass being half full and greeting every challenge with a smile. Most importantly, as a man that happens to be gay, he does not allow his "personal orientation" to solely define his life's journey or how he interacts with individuals from all walks of life.
As founder of 4+1 Productions, he is a proponent of "bridging diversity through the arts," and is an advocate for opening lines of communication and inspiring others to just be themselves. Kroell is currently working on finishing his degree, writing a book and living each day to the fullest. He is thankful to his family, friends and to the community for their support of his efforts and hopes that they will continue to watch what happens.
DID YOU KNOW? While he considers himself to be an ordinary guy, he also acknowledges that he has extraordinary dreams and believes that anything is possible (including his dream of being President of the U.S.).
STEPHEN ROSENGARD
30, FASHION DESIGNER
Born and raised in Chicago, 30-year-old Steven Rosengard was hooked on design as early as age 11, when he realized the people he loved to sketch "needed clothes." The greats of Hollywood's Golden Age-Katherine Hepburn, Rita Hayworth, Doris Day and Lauren Bacali-they were the inspiration for Rosengard, and by the age of 14, he was researching fashion history and making his first dresses.
The youngest of four children, Steven spent his free time drawing figures, designing gowns and exploring fabric. His path to fashion led him to the University of Wisconsin-Madison, studying Dutch, but he ended up at Chicago's Columbia College for fashion design. He traveled abroad, where fashion and fabric continued to captivate him in places such as France, England and Italy. Today, he creates effortless, dramatic and elegant day and evening looks, tailored for real women who have to look good while going through their daily lives.
Rosengard's passion and unique curiosity for all things fashionable have made him a rising star in Chicago's design community. His focus, with direct inspiration from Yves St. Laurent, centers on natural fabrics that bring a simple, yet elegant, perspective to women's day wear. He hopes to rid the fashion world of non-natural fabric and take day dresses to a level every woman would covet.
DID YOU KNOW? Rosengard eats ice cream with milk poured all over it (like how you eat cereal). He was also the only Project Runway contestant that understood what Heidi was saying when she would be ranting in Dutch.

Subject: Young adults; Social life & customs; Gays & lesbians; Careers

Business indexing term: Subject: Careers

People: Jessup, Chris; Rude, Jen; Posey, Patricia

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: 30 UNDER THIRTY 2008

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 23

Issue: 41

Pages: 33-34,36,38-39

Number of pages: 5

Publication year: 2008

Publication date: Jun 25, 2008

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 432798812

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/30-under-thirty-2008/docview/432798812/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jun 25, 2008

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Partner violence among forum topics

Author: Nair, Yasmin

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/partner-violence-among-forum-topics/docview/432805725/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: These and other points were raised at a May 24 day-long panel and community discussion, "Violence Within and Against Queer Communities," organized by the National Coalition of Anti-Violence Projects at the Center on Halsted, 3656 N. Halsted. The event's panel featured Alicia Vega, co-chair of Amigas Latinas, and Ann Russo and Michelle VanNatta. The latter two women represented Women and Girls Community Action Network (WGCAN) and the Queer Transformative Justice Project.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=37&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2008-05-28&amp;atitle=Partner+violence+among+forum+topics&amp;au=Nair%2C+Yasmin&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=37&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=8&amp;date=2008-05-28&amp;atitle=Partner+violence+among+forum+topics&amp;au=Nair%2C+Yasmin&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Violence is usually discussed within the context of heterosexual families and social groups. It's widely assumed that people in same-sex households, communities and relationships are either incapable of causing harm to each other, or that their needs can't be met by mainstream anti-violence groups. As a result, significant issues like intimate partner violence or the particular needs of transgender youth seeking shelter from abusive homes are not addressed. This leaves portions of the LGBTQ community without the conventional resources available to heterosexuals who seek relief from abuse.
These and other points were raised at a May 24 day-long panel and community discussion, "Violence Within and Against Queer Communities," organized by the National Coalition of Anti-Violence Projects at the Center on Halsted, 3656 N. Halsted. The event's panel featured Alicia Vega, co-chair of Amigas Latinas, and Ann Russo and Michelle VanNatta. The latter two women represented Women and Girls Community Action Network (WGCAN) and the Queer Transformative Justice Project.
Vega talked about the findings of Proyecto Latina, a survey initiated by Amigas Latinas to gather data about the experiences and lives of queer Latina women. Until this survey, conducted January to July 2007, there had been no statistical information about the community. Amigas wanted to "speak from a more informed place" about the women it represented. The questions asked about everything from health care to marital status.
Both Russo and VanNatta felt that the anti-violence movement had moved away from community-based solutions, and that the system depended too much on the state which, in turn, asked for immediate solutions like jail time without providing a long-term plan for the cessation of violence.
Russo and VanNatta also stressed the "need to do something in addition to social services." For both, such work is especially important because it provides an alternative for LGBTQ people and answers the question: "What does [the anti-violence movement] mean for queer issues of violence?"
Read the entire article at www.WindyCityMediaGroup.com.

Subject: Gays & lesbians; Domestic partners; Adult abuse & neglect; Meetings

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs; NAICS: 813319

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Partner violence among forum topics

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 23

Issue: 37

Pages: 8

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2008

Publication date: May 28, 2008

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 432805725

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/partner-violence-among-forum-topics/docview/432805725/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 28, 2008

Last updated: 2023-07-29

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Gay marriage and immigration: Laboring over love

Author: Nair, Yasmin

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gay-marriage-immigration-laboring-over-love/docview/432801826/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Somehow, the rights of the undocumented have become conflated with the "marriage rights/gay couples matter more than others" movement. Queer organizers insisted that their situationas queers whose relationships aren't recognized by the state (because, apparently, only marriage can legitimize a relationship)-was equal to that of the undocumented. Never mind the fact that none of them faced the harrowing issues of the undocumented.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=37&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2008-05-28&amp;atitle=Gay+marriage+and+immigration%3A+Laboring+over+love&amp;au=Nair%2C+Yasmin&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=37&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2008-05-28&amp;atitle=Gay+marriage+and+immigration%3A+Laboring+over+love&amp;au=Nair%2C+Yasmin&amp;id=doi:

Full text: The recent California decision on gay marriage fills me with dread-dread at the schlock I know is awaiting me during this Pride month and afterwards; dread about hearing all the triumphant rhetoric about "equality;" and dread that queers are going to speak about marriage as some kind of dream fulfilled. Again.
Because, of course, marriage will solve all our problems. No health care? Get married! Laid off? Get married! Struggling to pay bills and survive another month? Get married! Don't believe in marriage or that marriage should be the only way to gain health care and other benefits? Suck it up and start believing!
We queers have a unique ability to forget about the after-as in: What happens after "marriage equality"? Will our workplaces be better? Will we be less vulnerable to layoffs? Will our unmarried friends and neighbors have health insurance? Will the Lives of our married but uninsured friends and neighbors be any better with the legalization of gay marriage?
These questions preoccupied me as I watched the "gay movement" take up a cause in a cynical bid to further the idea that gay marriage/gay coupledom matters above all: Immigration. In this year's Chicago May Day march, gay groups joined together to form an official queer contingent.
Watching and talking to several of the key organizers of the contingent, I was struck by the great differences between queers who claimed to fight for immigration and queers who are themselves queer immigrants. For queer immigrants, immigration had to do with the rights of the undocumented. Many of them have friends and families who couldn't attend the march without consequences in their workplaces, and who faced deportation after recent raids. This year's march focused on the legalization of the undocumented and workers' rights.
Whether it's gay marriage or queer immigration, we have to understand that queers are more than the sum of all their relationships. We have no right to take on the cause of immigration without understanding the issues faced by immigrants themselves. And we can't delude ourselves into believing that love will conquer the problems with labor.
To be fair, many non-immigrants, especially younger queers, understood the key issues. But others were fixated on an issue that has nothing to do with the undocumented and even less with workers' rights: binational couples. According to them, gay couples should be able to sponsor their partners for immigration like married heterosexuals. In fact, this does nothing for the undocumented-citizenship via marriage is only available to the documented.
Somehow, the rights of the undocumented have become conflated with the "marriage rights/gay couples matter more than others" movement. Queer organizers insisted that their situationas queers whose relationships aren't recognized by the state (because, apparently, only marriage can legitimize a relationship)-was equal to that of the undocumented. Never mind the fact that none of them faced the harrowing issues of the undocumented.
Enlarge this image.
AuthorAffiliation Yasmin Nair is a writer for Windy City Times and a member of CLIA (Chicago LGBTQ Immigrants Alliance) as well as a co-organizer of the recent forum, "Immigration at the Margins: Day Laborers, Sex Workers, Domestic Violence, HIV."
Read the entire op-ed piece at www. WindyCityMediaGroup.com.

Subject: Same sex marriage; Immigration policy

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Gay marriage and immigration: Laboring over love

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 23

Issue: 37

Pages: 10

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2008

Publication date: May 28, 2008

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 432801826

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gay-marriage-immigration-laboring-over-love/docview/432801826/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 28, 2008

Last updated: 2023-07-29

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Gay pioneer Larry McKeon dies at 63

Author: Wooten, Amy

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gay-pioneer-larry-mckeon-dies-at-63/docview/432806094/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "[Larry McKeon] created positive change wherever he went, and I am proud that he was the City of Chicago's liaison to the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender communities from 1992 to 1996. With Larry's leadership, the City's relations improved tremendously with the LGBT communities. Under his leadership, the City's domestic partnership ordinance was passed, and he helped City officials better understand the needs of the HIV/AIDS community.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=36&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2008-05-21&amp;atitle=Gay+pioneer+Larry+McKeon+dies+at+63&amp;au=Wooten%2C+Amy&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=36&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2008-05-21&amp;atitle=Gay+pioneer+Larry+McKeon+dies+at+63&amp;au=Wooten%2C+Amy&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Former state Rep. Larry McKeon, D-Chicago, has passed away, leaving behind a rich legacy as a both a politician and activist.
McKeon, 63, made a historic mark on local politics. In 1996, he was elected to the Illinois House, becoming the state's first openly gay state legislator. He served as representative of the North Side's 13th District, which was the 34th prior to redistricting in 2002.
Rep. Barbara Flynn Currie, D-Chicago, announced on the House floor May 14 that McKeon died from a sudden stroke, reported the StateJournal Register.
The Illinois House of Representatives held an official remembrance of McKeon's life May 20 ain the House chamber. The public was welcome to attend.
A memorial service for McKeon will be held in Chicago in June. Details will be reported as they become available.
McKeon, who was also HIV-positive, served as a state representative from 1997 to 2007. In the summer of 2006, McKeon announced his retirement. His health was declining due to his struggle with HIV and cancer. Democratic ward committeemen selected the openly gay and HIV-positive Greg Harris as McKeon's replacement.
Besides being the first openly gay Illinois state legislator and one of the first representatives in the nation to be openly HIV-positive, McKeon's largest legislative achievement was an amendment to the Illinois Human Rights Act, which was passed in 2005. The amendment, which took 30 years to pass, banned discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity in areas such as housing and employment.
Enlarge this image.
In the House, McKeon served as chair of the Labor Committee and vice chair of the Housing & Urban Development Committee. He was also a member of the Aging and Executive Committees, among others. He was elected to five consecutive terms.
Prior to becoming a state legislator, McKeon was Mayor Richard M. Daley's liaison to the LGBT community, and served as the director of the Chicago Commission on Human Relations' Advisory Council on Gay and Lesbian Issues. In that role, he advocated for gay rights and worked closely with local politicians on issues close to the LGBT community.
Before entering the world of politics, McKeon served in a number of social service administration roles. He also worked as a police officer and administrator for the Los Angeles County Sheriffs Department, an educator at various universities and a community activist. He was involved in community organizations such as the Ravenswood Community Council, and served as a board member of Horizons and Bonaventure House. McKeon, an Idaho native, was also a veteran of the U.S. Army, where he began his career in public service as a first lieutenant.
Over the years, several LGBT organizations honored McKeon for his work on behalf of the community, including Dignity/Chicago, the Human Rights Campaign, Howard Brown Health Center and IMPACT Illinois, to name a few. McKeon was also a recipient of a Red Ribbon Leadership Award and a Stonewall Award for his outstanding service to the LGBT and HIV/ AIDS communities.
After his retirement, McKeon moved to Springfield. He continued to be active during the legislative session, offering a helping hand with policy consulting and more.
Several members of the LGBT community (as well as allies) have issued statements, either officially or to Windy City Times, about McKeon. Some of them are below:
"Larry McKeon was a trailblazer for LGBT Americans, an officer who served our great city of Chicago honorably and a friend of mine. He will be remembered for his personal and political courage, and his outspoken efforts as a champion of progressive causes in Springfield. My thoughts and prayers are with Larry, his family and his friends." - Sen. Barock Obama
"Larry McKeon spent 42 years of his life in public service. He simply loved helping people. As the state's first openly gay state legislator, he was a trailblazing pioneer and a tireless advocate. He spearheaded the drive to amend the Illinois Human Rights Act to prohibit discrimination against sexual orientation and its passage in 2005 is a proud moment in our state's history. He has made a lasting difference in the lives of the people of Illinois and he will truly be missed. Our hearts and prayers go out to his family and friends."- Gov. Rod Blagojevich
"Larry McKeon created positive change wherever he went, and I am proud that he was the City of Chicago's liaison to the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender communities from 1992 to 1996. With Larry's leadership, the City's relations improved tremendously with the LGBT communities. Under his leadership, the City's domestic partnership ordinance was passed, and he helped City officials better understand the needs of the HIV/AIDS community.
Larry was passionate about improving relations between the Chicago Police Department and the LGBT communities. He was the first to hold meetings at which LGBT Chicagoans were encouraged to join the police department, and he was a mentor to all who did. His commitment and actions sparked improvement that continues today." - Chicago Mayor Richard Daley
Enlarge this image.
"Larry McKeon was my colleague, my predecessor, my role model, my mentor and my friend. Larry was a pioneer and a fighter. He accomplished great things for the LGBT communities. His most celebrated accomplishments were being the first openly gay member of the Illinois General Assembly and sponsoring the bill that added sexual orientation to the Illinois Human Rights Act. Larry's impact, however, went far beyond those in the inspiration he provided our communities. He was one of the most honorable men I have known. - Bill Greaves, director/community liaison, Advisory Council on Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Issues, City of Chicago Commission on Human Relations
"The DNC mourns the passing of former Illinois State Representative Larry McKeon. State Representative McKeon was a trailblazer and icon for the LGBT community in Illinois and across the nation. McKeon broke an important barrier in Illinois by being elected as the first openly gay member to serve in the Illinois House of Representatives. He also used his status as a person living with HIV/AIDS to promote greater awareness and education on issues regarding HIV/AIDS. His courageous leadership was an inspiration to many, and he will be missed." - Howard Dean, Democratic National Committee chairman
"I was proud to have had Larry McKeon as my state representative, and glad to have had him as my friend. He made history as Illinois' first openly gay state legislator and as its first openly HIV-positive one. He was the model of a public-spirited, responsive lawmaker, whose concerns encompassed all the people of his district. In public and private life, he was thoughtful in forming an opinion and courageous in voicing it, even though others might not agree with it. Before going to Springfield, he ably served the city and Mayor Daley as a knowledgeable, trusted bridge between local government and Chicago's sexual minority population. I valued his counsel, and I deeply regret his loss to us all. Chen Ooi joins me in expressing our sorrow." - William B. Kelley, activist
"Larry McKeon devoted his whole career to making sure that people who did not have a strong voice had one in him. He looked out for those who were most in need, who might not have high-powered lobbyists or who were not necessarily politically active, [such as] the immigrant refugee community, people who needed affordable housing or did not have healthcare. He was always their voice." - State Rep. Greg Harris
"I had the honor of knowing Larry for almost 25 years, and he became part of my family, sharing Thanksgivings, Christmas and others holidays, as well as working with him to combat discrimination of all types.
Larry was an advocate for all people that were disenfranchised, and had a keen ability to listen to issues and develop sound public policy to try to address the inequities that people faced, be they gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender or queer, or Asian, Indian, Muslim, American Indian, Vietnamese, victims of domestic violence or racism of any kind.
Enlarge this image.
When Larry came to Chicago, he was the driving force, as a member of Horizons' board of directors, to the founding of Horizons Community Services' Anti-Violence Project, securing the initial funding that allowed the program to grow and flourish.
I spoke with Larry just a few weeks ago, and he seemed happy and excited that the session would be coming to an end soon, so that he, Squiggy and Hillary (his rescued greyhounds) could 'hit the road' and go fishing. I am sorry that he wasn't able to do that, but pleased that after all of his health issues, he did not suffer at the end. ... We should all be so lucky." - Laird Peterson, McKeon's former chief of staff
"We were very saddened to hear of the passing of State Rep. Larry McKeon. What an amazing, quiet man with a thirst for justice and equality for all people. We were impressed with his campaigning of human rights for gay Americans and for African Americans. We were equally impressed with his fight for the rights of working Americans as he served as the chair of the House Labor Committee, and his honesty regarding police brutality that caused him to demand video tape recordings during homicide interrogations. Let us also not forget his right for women's rights.
Larry one time told me, 'I speak up for women because there is a woman in each and every one of us.' That same day, he shared with me his concern for all because he had a responsibility for everyone who he served.
And to his family, may they know that there is a land called Heaven, where there is no more pain, sorrow and discrimination. May they find comfort in this fact. And may God walk with them through the coming weeks and months ahead." - T.J. Williams, minister-in-training at the Riverside Church NYC and Trinity United Church of Christ, and partner Bradley Hauger
"Our community has lost a great friend and leader. Larry was always supportive of Howard Brown: he was there fighting for us when we wanted to build our facility on Sheridan Road and he has sought and obtained funding on a local and state level for many of Howard Brown's programs over the years. We were proud to present him with our Friend for Life Award in 2006. He will be missed." - Michael Cook, Howard Brown president and CEO
"When Larry got wind of the fact that the Ryan White funding category under which the Chicago Area HIV Services Directory was being eliminated, he facilitated a meeting with Tom Hughes of the Illinois Department of Public Health to see what could be done, because he understood just how important the directory is to so many people. That's just the kind of person he was, truly selfless. When he really believed in something, or someone, and saw a need, he would step right up and do whatever he could to help. He led by example, and to me that is the mark of a true leader." - Jeff Berry, Test Positive Aware Network
"Center on Halsted pays tribute to the life and service of former Rep. Larry McKeon, the first openly gay member of the Illinois Legislature. The LGBT community in Illinois owes much to this man responsible for adding 'sexual orientation' as a type of discrimination banned by Illinois law. - Center on Halsted's statement
"Larry remains an inspiration to all of us who continue to fight for equality. He was a longtime supporter of Horizons/Center on Halsted and we've lost a true friend." - Modesto "Tico" Valle, Center on Halsted
"Larry McKeon was a hero, a trailblazer, a fighter for civil rights, a fierce advocte for those in need and a real friend. We are fortunate as a community and as a city to have enjoyed such strong and gentle leadership. May Larry continue to inspire us all." - Andrew Deppe
"Larry McKeon often served in an unassuming way, but he was a real fighter when he needed to be. We Illinoisans were lucky to have him in our corner."- Julie Kruse, policy advocate for Servicemembers Legal Defense Network
"While others said 'no,' Larry McKeon answered our call for an openly gay candidate to run for the 34th District of the Illinois General Assembly. Larry broke the gay glass ceiling of the Illinois legislature. His election paved the way for others in our community to follow." - Rick Garcia, Equality Illinois director of public policy
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Death & dying; Legislators; Stroke; Personal profiles; Careers

Business indexing term: Subject: Careers

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: McKeon, Larry

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Gay pioneer Larry McKeon dies at 63

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 23

Issue: 36

Pages: 1,13-14

Number of pages: 3

Publication year: 2008

Publication date: May 21, 2008

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 432806094

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gay-pioneer-larry-mckeon-dies-at-63/docview/432806094/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media G roup May 21, 2008

Last updated: 2023-07-28

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Confab focuses on LGBTs and immigration

Author: Wooten, Amy

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/confab-focuses-on-lgbts-immigration/docview/432805889/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: "It's always intersecting," [Shira Hassan] said of both sex trade and immigration issues. "But it's only in the past year people have been frothing at the mouth about the sex trade and immigration," she added.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=34&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=5&amp;date=2008-05-07&amp;atitle=Confab+focuses+on+LGBTs+and+immigration&amp;au=Wooten%2C+Amy&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=34&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=5&amp;date=2008-05-07&amp;atitle=Confab+focuses+on+LGBTs+and+immigration&amp;au=Wooten%2C+Amy&amp;id=doi:

Full text: During the week of the Large immigration march downtown, members of the community gathered at the Center on Halsted, 3656 N. Halsted, to discuss the many ways LGBT and immigration issues intersect.
At the April 30 Immigration at the Margins conference, members of various aspects of the LGBT community touched on just a small number of ways immigration issues impact the LGBT community, from corner day workers and sex workers to domestic violence.
"A lot of us are part of many worlds-queer, immigrants and more," said community activist and Windy City Times writer Yasmin Nair. "A lot of us have to deal with immigration."
During a two-hour discussion, conference participants tried to shed light on issues complicated by immigration issues.
Jessica Acee, a coordinator of the Latino Union's Albany Park Workers' Center, spoke about the issues Chicago immigrant day Laborers face each day, such as health and safety abuses; wage theft; and police abuse. Given a "20-year onslaught of the far right," Acee said, it's important to also talk about issues like racism, sexism and heterosexism in order to better and fully understand the framework.
Sex work and immigration were also discussed during the afternoon plenary session. Young Women's Empowerment Project co-director Shira Hassan discussed the issues Chicago girls and women in the sex trade face each day.
"It's always intersecting," Hassan said of both sex trade and immigration issues. "But it's only in the past year people have been frothing at the mouth about the sex trade and immigration," she added.
Read the entire article at www.WindyCityMediaGroup.com.

Subject: Conferences; Gays & lesbians; Immigration

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Confab focuses on LGBTs and immigration

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 23

Issue: 34

Pages: 5

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2008

Publication date: May 7, 2008

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 432805889

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/confab-focuses-on-lgbts-immigration/docview/432805889/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group May 7, 2008

Last updated: 2023-07-28

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

LGBTs part of May 1 immigration march

Author: Nair, Yasmin

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lgbts-part-may-1-immigration-march/docview/432807631/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: So, there will be as many approaches to queer immigration as rainbow flags on May Day. For queers and non-queer immigrants alike, participation itself can be stressful, especially if they have prior criminal records for even minor infractions. But queer organizers are optimistic about creating a safe space as well as solidarity with the larger immigrant-rights movement.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=32&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2008-04-23&amp;atitle=LGBTs+part+of+May+1+immigration+march&amp;au=Nair%2C+Yasmin&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=32&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2008-04-23&amp;atitle=LGBTs+part+of+May+1+immigration+march&amp;au=Nair%2C+Yasmin&amp;id=doi:

Full text: The 2006 Sensenbrenner BiU (HR 4437)-also known as The Border Protection, Anti-terrorism and Illegal Immigration Control Act of 2005prompted widespread protests nationwide. In Chicago, the March 10 Movement mobilized a rally of 200,000 immigrants in downtown Chicago. Subsequently, national immigrant-rights groups began staging immigrant rights rallies on May Day (May 1) to emphasize the connection between labor and immigrants.
This year, the May Day immigrant-rights march organizers in Chicago have, in a change from previous years, included an anti-war message along with a call for legalization of all undocumented people.
That's not the only change. For the first time since 2006, local Chicago queer groups have issued an open invitation for queers and queer immigrants to join in solidarity with May Day organizers. Several LGBTQ groups, including Amigas Latinas, ALMA (Association of Latino Men for Action), Orgullo en Accion and Gay Liberation Network (GLN) are participating.
Enlarge this image.
So, queer immigrants will organize under a big tent-or at least a big rainbow flag. But what does a queer presence mean in an immigration reform movement that's focused on labor? Do U.S.-born queers and immigrant queers face the same issues around immigration?
This isn't the first time that immigrant queers have marched in the rallies, and many have been working in the immigrant reform movement before working for queer issues. Tania Unzueta, director of RadioArte's youth program and producer of the radio show Homofrequencia, remembers that the March 10 Movement's first rally in 2006 made her realize that she would be coming out twice-as queer to the immigrant-rights movement and as an immigrant to those who did not know about her background. She remembers numerous rainbow flags dotting the rallies.
For Aurora Pineda and fellow members of Amigas Latinas, immigration became an issue when they came into contact with immigrant Latinas who were not out. They feared coming out or getting divorced, not because of domestic-violence issues, but because they'd find themselves without legal status: Married queer immigrants face different consequences than citizens because they lose their immigration status as the spouses of citizens/permanent residents.
That raises the issue of binational couples. The mainstream gay-rights community emphasizes the issues of those who are either separated from non-citizen/non-permanent resident partners or feel compelled to leave the country to be with partners; the Uniting American Families Act (UAFA) is supposed to remedy that by granting the same rights of sponsorship of partners to same-sex couples that opposite-sex couples have. GLN's Andy Thayer, for one, spoke at length about the issue and refers to the "legalization of binational couples."
However, the UAFA only benefit those already with legal status. Even straight married couples can no longer use marriage as an immigration solution. In 1996, the Clinton administration passed the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act. The penalty for undocumented people, even those married to citizens, can be severe: They can be required to return to their home country for as long as 10 years, and can only return to the U.S. after successfully petitioning to return from within said country -through a complex and often onerous process.
For Pineda, family reunification is a major issue for queer immigrants. She and her partner Karen Rothstein-Pineda have an infant, are active in creating a Spanish PFLAG (Parents, Fami lies and Friends of Lesbians and Gays), and she speaks frequently about the need to recognize the legitimacy of queer families. Pineda doesn't believe that only queers within traditional fami lies should count and is critical of moralistic overtones in LGBTQ organizing: "The reality is that once you pull those doors of your house [shut] behind you, you might be doing the same thing the person [you criticized] is doing. Who cares?"
The reality of the different social structures occupied by queer or non-queer immigrant youth resonates for Unzueta, who works with 40 immigrant youth, of whom about 15 are queer. She recalls one youth worried about her undocumented mother, who was also being harassed at work. Like many queer youth, queer immigrant youth can become homeless upon coming out. For Unzueta, access to education is, therefore, a high priority. The recent DREAM (Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors) Act troubles many immigration activists, because it promises access to college and legalization for undocumented youth-on the condition that they serve two years in the military. Many see this as taking advantage of already disenfranchised youth. Unzueta points out that it's espenally problematic for immigrant youth who may be anti-war and for queers who must face "a homophobic institution" like the army.
Enlarge this image.
There are other issues that queers are concerned about. For many years now, several groups nationwide, including advocacy groups like National Immigrant Justice Center, New York's Queers for Economic Justice and the AIDS Legal Council of Chicago, as well as local activist groups like CLIA (Chicago LGBTQ Immigrant Alliance), have called for an end to the ban on HIV-positive travelers and immigrants. In addition, there's a push for allowing more queer immigrants to ask for asylum on the grounds of sexual orientation. (Then-Attorney General Janet Reno legalized the measure in 1994.)
So, there will be as many approaches to queer immigration as rainbow flags on May Day. For queers and non-queer immigrants alike, participation itself can be stressful, especially if they have prior criminal records for even minor infractions. But queer organizers are optimistic about creating a safe space as well as solidarity with the larger immigrant-rights movement. Asked about what non-immigrant queer groups ought to be mindful of at a march that's about legalization of the undocumented and organized by an immigrant rights coalition, Unzueta is cautiously optimistic: "I hope that it is with a feeling of solidarity rather than with a feeling of righteousness. Yes, it's important to fight for inclusion of LGBTQ people within immigrant rights, but the march calls for very specific things: legalization, worker's rights, education. This would be a space to create community."
On May 1, look for the Rainbow Flags in the Union Park at 11 a.m in order to join the contingent, or call GLN at 773-209-1187 to find it.
On April 30, CLIA will hold a forum: Immigration at the Margins: Domestic Violence, Sex Work, HIV, and Trafficking at the Center on Halsted, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. see www.centeronhalsted.org.
Sidebar For the latest on the Democratic Penn. primary, see www. WindyCityMediaGroup.com

Subject: Bills; Demonstrations & protests; Immigration policy; Noncitizens

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Lesbian Gay Bisexual & Transgender; NAICS: 813410

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: LGBTs part of May 1 immigration march

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 23

Issue: 32

Pages: 1,6

Number of pages: 2

Publication year: 2008

Publication date: Apr 23, 2008

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 432807631

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lgbts-part-may-1-immigration-march/docview/432807631/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Apr 23, 2008

Last updated: 2023-07-28

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Body language: A dancer confesses

Author: Davis, Andrew

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/body-language-dancer-confesses/docview/432798316/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: It's hard talking about sexuality and [other issues] because I come from a Christian family background. Me becoming an exotic entertainer-I had no idea that this [career] was something that was already in my family. I thought, "I'm seeing Mom dance, and I'm seeing Chippendales dance," but even after I wrote the book, my grandmother sat me down for two to three hours and said, "This is no mistake." Nobody wanted to tell me what was going on.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=30&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2008-04-09&amp;atitle=Body+language%3A+A+dancer+confesses&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=30&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=11&amp;date=2008-04-09&amp;atitle=Body+language%3A+A+dancer+confesses&amp;au=Davis%2C+Andrew&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Domestic violence, sexual experimentation, relationships, date rape, steroid use and suicide are just some of the topics covered in Tahjaleenie "Mega Body" Tahji's book G-String Dreams: True Confessions of a Male Exotic Dancer. Before talking at the April 3 Chicago Black Gay Men's Caucus (CBGMC) forum "Sex and Eroticism," Tahji discussed bisexuality, dancing and HIV/AIDS with Windy City Times.
Windy City Times: You cover so much in this book. Why share all of this with the public?
Tahjaleenie Tahji: Well, I've been through so much as a human being, a man and as an entertainer. I'm glad to be at the stage where I am now, [but] I'm tired of people asking me certain questions. Also, this gives me an opportunity to educate my children; I want them to know what the real world is like.
It's hard talking about sexuality and [other issues] because I come from a Christian family background. Me becoming an exotic entertainer-I had no idea that this [career] was something that was already in my family. I thought, "I'm seeing Mom dance, and I'm seeing Chippendales dance," but even after I wrote the book, my grandmother sat me down for two to three hours and said, "This is no mistake." Nobody wanted to tell me what was going on. I'm finding out that a whole chapter is missing from my book.
WCT: I was going to save that question until the end, but I'll ask it now: Was there anything you don't have in this book that you wish you had included?
TT: Just the realness of what my mom's and dad's [lives] were. I wish they had told me the truth: that they had done what [I do]. My dad brushed it off as ballroom dancing. [My parents] didn't really walk me through the journey of same-sex relationships and all that stuff. It was more like, "When are you going to get out of that?"
WCT: So both of your parents were dancers?
TT: Yes. My grandmother sat me down and explained it to me. My [parents] and my dad's mother used to be female exotic dancers. I asked her why no one told me this before and she said, "Because you became more successful than anyone else who did it in the family. ... You went further than anyone else; you went on national television and now you're an author. I believe that your mom and dad are jealous of you." I thought that maybe it's true, [but] maybe it isn't.
WCT: I thought you were going to say that maybe your parents were trying to protect you.
TT: No; I don't see my mom and dad trying to protect me [from] this entertainment industry. At first, they didn't seem all that shocked and they were happy that the money was coming in. That's one thing I learned about family: When you're doing well, they all start coming at you. As soon as you hit rock bottom, no one wants to talk to you.
[That being said,] one of the biggest inspirations in writing this book was to say to everybody, "Regardless of what happens to you, don't give up on your dreams. Your dream is your dream." I enjoy the exotic [dancing] world, but there's no big future in it; there are no contracts or endorsements.
There are a lot of deep things in this book, such as domestic violence and HIV/AIDS. I'm blessed in that, after 13 years in this industry, I'm HIV-negative, but I could have been positive. I could've just been out there wildin' out.
WCT: How prevalent would you say HIV/ AIDS is within the exotic-dancing industry?
TT: It's not known because no one is saying anything. I know that after my friend, Sensational, died in New York that no one said anything. We really do not promote any shows that raise awareness about [HIV/AIDS]. I try to put condoms in people's hands [where I'm entertaining], and a lot of women are like, "Condoms. Wow. What am I supposed to do with this?" Some women took it as a good thing; others took it as a bad thing. A lot of religious folk are upset about condoms because, if we give them to teenagers, they see it that we're giving teenagers a green light [to have sex].
WCT: How much longer do you think you'll dance?
TT: I'm getting into acting and the recording business; I admire rappers like LL Cool J and Will Smith, who don't use terms like "bitch" and "ho." My daughter would be like, "Daddy, why did you have to say that?"
As for dancing, I'm still able to do it. [Tahji is 41.] I enjoy it, but there's a lot of wear and tear because I [physically] pick up a lot of men and women. But my dream is to have a microphone in my hand and [rapping]. I also want to continue writing books.
Read the entire interview at www. WindyCityMediaGroup.com.
Find out more about CBGMC at www. lovethybrotha.com.

Subject: Books; Dancers & choreographers; Sexuality; Human immunodeficiency virus--HIV

People: Tahji, Tahjaleenie

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Body language: A dancer confesses

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 23

Issue: 30

Pages: 11

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2008

Publication date: Apr 9, 2008

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 432798316

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/body-language-dancer-confesses/docview/432798316/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Apr 9, 2008

Last updated: 2023-07-28

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

David Halperin on what gay men want

Author: Wooten, Amy

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/david-halperin-on-what-gay-men-want/docview/432797130/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [David Halperin], author of What Do Gay men Want?, will be a guest at Project CRYSP's upcoming community forum on gay men's health, "'Good' Sex? 'Bad' Sex? Just What Do Gay men Want Anyway?" The forum, which will also feature panel experts such as DePaul University's Dr. Gary Harper and Northwestern University's Dr. Michèle Morales, will take place Thurs., April 17, 6 p.m., at the Center on Halsted, 3656 N. Halsted.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=30&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=7&amp;date=2008-04-09&amp;atitle=David+Halperin+on+what+gay+men+want&amp;au=Wooten%2C+Amy&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=30&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=7&amp;date=2008-04-09&amp;atitle=David+Halperin+on+what+gay+men+want&amp;au=Wooten%2C+Amy&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Gay men have a Lot to talk about, according to author David Halperin.
Halperin, author of What Do Gay men Want?, will be a guest at Project CRYSP's upcoming community forum on gay men's health, "'Good' Sex? 'Bad' Sex? Just What Do Gay men Want Anyway?" The forum, which will also feature panel experts such as DePaul University's Dr. Gary Harper and Northwestern University's Dr. Michèle Morales, will take place Thurs., April 17, 6 p.m., at the Center on Halsted, 3656 N. Halsted.
The debate will revolve around gay men's relation to sex and risk, and will touch on issues such as barebacking, the clichés that are still used to attempt to understand gay men and much more.
Windy City Times: Are there a lot of conversations that we aren't having when it comes to gay men's health?
David Halperin: I think there aren't enough of them. Part of it is the need to approach gay men's health in a holistic way that isn't centered just on disease or on various kinds of social problems such as alcohol abuse or domestic violence or HIV prevention-so, the need to look at gay men's health and gay men's sexual health, in particular, in a larger contest.
WCT: So, have we been taking the wrong approach?
DH: No, I think it's natural that we should be concerned about these things. But, the other conversation that we need to have that we haven't been having enough of is are we really going to stop using condoms? If we are going to stop using condoms, or if we're going to use them less, and if we are trying to protect ourselves from infection of HIV by other means-by means that don't involve using condoms-what exactly are those means? How can we make sure we pursue them intelligently so that we don't fail at preventing the spread of HIV?
WCT: Why is the community stopping condom use, after years of pounding it in our heads that this is what you need to do?
DH: A Lot of studies indicate that condom use is falling off. Some places, including the San Francisco Department of Public Health, have been promoting alternatives to the use of condoms for HIV prevention.
WCT: What are some of those alternatives?
DH: Things like partner selection, which is often called serosorting. The notion that one could perhaps avoid these condoms if one is having sex with someone who has the same HIV serology status as oneself. It's a technique that works better for HIV-positive men than HIV-negative men, since they are the ones who actually know what their HIV status is. Someone who tells you he is HIV-positive is probably not lying to you. But if we were to put more emphasis on sero sorting and partner selection, and less emphasis on condoms, certainly we need to talk about that and we need to try to make sure HIV risk reduction practices don't inadvertently produce risk increases.
WCT: The fact that someone like me thinks it's fairly new-is that because there has been so much emphasis on condom use?
DH: I think that's right. The CDC [Centers for Disease Control and Prevention] has not been promoting sero-sorting. The CDC has been promoting condom use and most HIV/AIDS prevention organizations promote condoms. But there has been relatively little attempt to try to figure out what gay men are actually doing on the ground and to try to adapt health initiatives to what people are actually doing, rather than do it to get gay men to adapt to health initiatives. Another reason you might not know about this is a lot of this has been taking place in HIVpositive communities.
WCT: Is another one of the issues that health officials have not tried to figure out what gay men really want?
DH: Right. There is a huge amount of energy being devoted to figuring out what gay men really want, but it's usually in the key of disease or impaired psychology. So the notion is, "Oh, we really have to figure out what gay men want because we have to explain why they are behaving so badly and so self-destructively-why they are doing these terrible things? What on earth is going on in their little minds? What explains this weird, self-destructive, harmful behavior? Why would a normal person ever act that way?
WCT: So it's very negative.
DH: It's very negative. It posits that there is some irrational behavior going on, and it tries to imply a medical reason, which is usually some form of impairment to explain this "irrational" behavior. Those explanations can range from the supposedly gay-friendly one like post-traumatic stress disorder or grief mourning, and so forth, all the way to lack of self-control, various psychological deficits.
Read more at www.WindyCityMediaGroup.com.

Subject: Writers; Gays & lesbians; Mens health; Reproductive health; Sexual behavior; Condoms

People: Halperin, David M

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: David Halperin on what gay men want

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 23

Issue: 30

Pages: 7

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2008

Publication date: Apr 9, 2008

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 432797130

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/david-halperin-on-what-gay-men-want/docview/432797130/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Apr 9, 2008

Last updated: 2023-07-28

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Rev. Jeremiah Wright Gets LGBT Support

Author: Wooten, Amy

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rev-jeremiah-wright-gets-lgbt-support/docview/432796896/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: Although [Jeremiah Wright] has been inclusive during his years of service, there have been inconsistent moments. In a 2005 article titled "Maybe I Missed Something!" Wright spoke out against the UCCs decision to endorse same-sex marriage. He wrote, "Are 44 million Americans with no health care insurance less important than 'gay marriage?" he wrote. "Why aren't Black Christians in an uproar about that? Maybe I am missing something!"

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=28&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2008-03-26&amp;atitle=Rev.+Jeremiah+Wright+Gets+LGBT+Support&amp;au=Wooten%2C+Amy&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=28&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=1&amp;date=2008-03-26&amp;atitle=Rev.+Jeremiah+Wright+Gets+LGBT+Support&amp;au=Wooten%2C+Amy&amp;id=doi:

Full text: Several Local LGBT people have come out in support of Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Barack Obama's controversial former pastor following media uproar over short clips from his past sermons.
Media frenzy and a flood of criticism over past comments made by Rev. Jeremiah Wright, who recently retired from leading Chicago's 8,000-member Trinity United Church of Christ (UCC), have caused some unease among Americans, including members of the LGBT community. Some activists have second-guessed Obama out of fear that the man he labeled as his "spiritual mentor" might be anti-gay after seeing the short clips. Since media outlets started showing video clips of racially charged past sermons, Wright has received a high amount of criticism. Even Obama has tried to distance himself from Wright.
However, there are many who vocally support Wright, saying he has been nothing but supportive of the LGBT community over the years. His supporters say three-minute clips taken out of context and shown by the media mar a lifetime of sermons filled with inclusive messages. Others say the uproar over the clips also show a misunderstanding of Black theology and the Black church.
Enlarge this image.
"I have only the highest regard for Trinity and Rev. Wright/' Equality Illinois Political Director Rick Garcia e-mailed to Windy City Times. "It is so sad that a man of faith, a man of justice, a man of fairness is being vilified and that his church is being portrayed as controversial, racist, separatist and marginal. Nothing is farther from the truth."
Garcia described both Trinity UCC and Wright as a "Chicago treasure."
"It disgusts me that rank politics is disparaging the Reverend and his church's exemplary work," Garcia added.
During a recent speech, Obama said that while he does not agree with the message shown in the video clips shown by media, Wright is still a part of his identity and he does not denounce the man. His speech also tried to shed light on how race has become a divisive issue in the run for the White House.
The Rev. Otis Moss II has replaced the recently retired Wright.
While not everyone may fully support the messages of the former reverend shown in the clips, many, including some members of Chicago's LGBT community, have come forward out of anger that video "sound bites" of the former Trinity UCC pastor's sermons have been taken out of context by mainstream media to further divide Americans on issues of race and even sexuality as the race for the Democratic nod drags on. Both Obama and rival Sen. Hillary Clinton have been battling for every vote, including the LGBT vote.
Over the years, Wright has included LGBT-inclusive sermons, and has also been very welcoming to HIV-positive individuals. Trinity had one of Chicago's first church-run HIV/AIDS ministries. Toward the end of 2007, Wright voiced his opposition and disgust of anti-gay violence in a sermon following news of the murder of Trinity's openly gay choir director Donald Young, according to congregation members.
Former congregation member and current minister S h erri Jackson said that although she has "outgrown" Trinity, she had several positive experiences while there.
"I'm grateful for that part of the journey, and to have been under Wright's leadership, and his spiritual guidance, his scholarly teaching of liberation theology and Black theology-that's what I was in search for," Jackson, an out lesbian, said.
She appreciated the church's work in HIV/ AIDS ministry, same-gender-loving ministry and on domestic violence issues, noting that many churches avoid addressing those issues from the pulpit.
"It has always been a very welcoming place for LGBT individuals to come," said Ronald Wadley, who has been a member of Trinity since 1987, and has participated in the church's same-gender-loving ministry program. He said he has had nothing but positive experiences with the church and Wright.
Prior to coming to Trinity, Wadley said he was raised in a Baptist church that taught anti-gay messages. He applauds the leadership at Trinity for refusing to "gay-bash from the pulpit."
I'm a very vocal, very political, Afri canAmerican gay man, and being able to also go to church and worship God and not have to feel like I'm going to hell because of who I am and who God created me to be is very important," Wadley added. "What I love about Trinity is I never have to step in that door and wonder, Oh God, what's the pastor going to say about gay folks today that's not welcoming?'"
Although Wright has been inclusive during his years of service, there have been inconsistent moments. In a 2005 article titled "Maybe I Missed Something!" Wright spoke out against the UCCs decision to endorse same-sex marriage. He wrote, "Are 44 million Americans with no health care insurance less important than 'gay marriage?" he wrote. "Why aren't Black Christians in an uproar about that? Maybe I am missing something!"
Jackson said she was very upset by the 2005 article. "He and I had discussions about that," she said. "That article, from a political standpoint, if you are out and active, can be taken in many ways."
She said that Wright should have had more dialogue with more political, out people, because LGBT people are also victims of racial disparity.
However, Wright was vocal about his opposition to a federal marriage amendment around the same time. Some say the article has also been taken out of context, and say he wasn't attacking gay marriage so much as stating his priorities for issues impacting the Black community.
Others have voiced their disappointment that Wright never accepted the invitation to join UCCs Open and Affirming Program. Open and affirming churches have publicly stated that they welcome LGBT people.
"It does bother people," Jackson said. "Not everyone, but it does bother some people." However, according to the UCC Coalition for LGBT Concerns board member Rev. Mike Schuenemeyer, Trinity's failure to hop on board is very common. In fact, there are several thousand churches that have not accepted the invitation over the years.
According to Schuenemeyer, the Open and Affirming Program is a movement within the denomination, and there has been a steady increase of church's adopting open and affirming policies over the years. However, in order to be recognized as an open and affirming church, a church has to vote in an inclusive policy, and they can do that in a number of ways.
Enlarge this image.
"We have a lot of churches that may offer a welcome, but just don't have it in their culture, in general, to vote an action on anything, much less an action about sexual orientation," Schuenemeyer said.
"Just because they have voted on it doesn't mean that they haven't been working at it, and there haven't been folks in leadership who haven't been trying to help the congregation build toward an understanding of values and fusing their sense of values with what it means to be welcoming to people who are lesbian, gay and bisexual," Schuenemeyer said. "That's a cultural shift, and you have to respect the culture of a congregation.
"When you look at the positive things Jeremiah Wright has said in support of LGBT rights, you can know that he was working his leadership of the church in a very radical way, trying to move things along in that congregation," he continued, adding that he has witnessed sermons of Wright's that have addressed his opposition to a federal ban on same-sex marriage, his opposition to anti-gay violence and his support of those living with HIV/AIDS.
Schuenemeyer recognizes there are congregation members who are frustrated that it isn't moving forward as quickly as they'd like. "But it's also okay to say that steps have been made," said Schuenemeyer. "It may happen at some time, and even if it doesn't, there are people who find themselves welcome at that congregation."
Wadley said Trinity and Wright do not support separatism, and as an out, gay man, he supports Trinity "100 percent." "You have people who don't look like us judging what is being said," Wadley said.
"People just don't get it," he added. "People are judging that he teaches Black theology, which is nothing more than preaching about standing on your own two feet in society. Immediately people don't understand, so they think it's racist. Ifs not racist, it's believing in one's self. ... Why do we have to follow someone else's framework?"
Jackson described as being "very hurt" by how Wright has been portrayed by the media, as well as the attacks on Obama. "I was there for that service, and the sermon has been totally blown out of context. ... I was very upset by it because of what we have not talked about, and what it's become. It was always going to be a race and gender issue in this election, and now we see how it's really becoming a race issue.
"...They picked five minutes and 15 seconds of a sound bite, without politically and spiritually addressing what the whole sermon was all about and what was he really saying," Jackson added. "Instead, he looks like a madman."
Jackson hopes that some good can come of this, and that much-needed discussions can take place, especially in the Black church, about racial disparities and LGBT issues.
"But we're afraid to do that behind the pulpit," she said.

Subject: Clergy; Sermons; African Americans; Gays & lesbians; Acquired immune deficiency syndrome--AIDS; Retirement

Business indexing term: Subject: Retirement

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Wright, Jeremiah Jr

Company / organization: Name: Lesbian Gay Bisexual & Transgender; NAICS: 813410

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Rev. Jeremiah Wright Gets LGBT Support

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 23

Issue: 28

Pages: 1,6

Number of pages: 2

Publication year: 2008

Publication date: Mar 26, 2008

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 432796896

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rev-jeremiah-wright-gets-lgbt-support/docview/432796896/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 26, 2008

Last updated: 2023-07-28

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

The Revolution Will Not Be Funded: Beyond the Non-Profit Industrial Complex

Author: Nair, Yasmin

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/revolution-will-not-be-funded-beyond-non-profit/docview/432798007/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: A third section, wishfully titled "Rethinking Non-Profits: Reimagining Resistance," features essays by people who work within the NPIC. The authors of "Fundraising Is Not a Dirty Word" present "community events," where participants donate or "pay a few bucks for raffle tickets," as affordable alternatives to corporate dinners.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=25&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=19&amp;date=2008-03-05&amp;atitle=The+Revolution+Will+Not+Be+Funded%3A+Beyond+the+Non-Profit+Industrial+Complex&amp;au=Nair%2C+Yasmin&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=25&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=19&amp;date=2008-03-05&amp;atitle=The+Revolution+Will+Not+Be+Funded%3A+Beyond+the+Non-Profit+Industrial+Complex&amp;au=Nair%2C+Yasmin&amp;id=doi:

Full text: BOOK REVIEW The Revolution Will Not Be Funded: Beyond the Non-Profit Industrial Complex Edited by Incite! Women of Color Against Violence, 257 pages, $18
In 1961, Dwight D. Eisenhower warned against "... the acquisition of unwarranted influence ... by the military-industrial complex." Progressives have since used the term "industrial complex" to describe systems, like that of prisons, ostensibly designed for the public good but which, in reality, benefit the few who make profits from them, while increasing the very conditions they're supposed to eradicate. There are 1.5 million nonprofits in the United States, creating what the editors of The Revolution Will Not Be Funded claim is a nonprofit industrial complex (NPIC). In Asia, Africa and Europe, nonprofits are known as NGOs (non-governmental organizations), a term that, semanticaUy at least, grants them outsider status while the American term "nonprofit" imbues them with an air of piety.
Nonprofits tackle a range of issues, from homelessness to immigration. But should they continue in perpetuity? Should non-profits instead pressure the State to eliminate the conditions that create disenfranchisement -and thus eventually put themselves out of business? Is the NPIC inherently leftist/progressive or not?
The response to these and other question is tackled in three sections. The first, "The Rise of the Non-Profit Industrial Complex," includes an essay by Ruth Wilson Gilmore who calls the NPIC a shadow state, an apparatus whose existence allows government to abdicate its responsibility for basic social services. Christine Ahn writes that "Americans are seduced by the idea that piecemeal voluntary efforts can somehow replace a systemic public approach to eliminating poverty ... based on the inherent falsehood that scarcity-rather than inequality-is at the root of these persisting social and economic problems."
Enlarge this image.
The second section, "Non-profits and Global Organizing," is ambitiously titled but only one essay, about NGOs and the Palestinian Liberation Movement, takes us out of the U.S. But NGOs don't replicate themselves on U.S.-based templates, and they vary from nation to nation. Despite this narrow definition of "global," there are critical insights and perspectives. Ana Durazo considers how domestic violence programs individualize violence within narratives about perpetrators and victims, when "...in fact, the state narrative on violence against women excludes just about every form of violence, including military violence." Members of the organization Sisters in Action for Power, which works with women and girls of color, write about having to divert energy from activism to management issues like fundraising.
A third section, wishfully titled "Rethinking Non-Profits: Reimagining Resistance," features essays by people who work within the NPIC. The authors of "Fundraising Is Not a Dirty Word" present "community events," where participants donate or "pay a few bucks for raffle tickets," as affordable alternatives to corporate dinners. But most people in and around the non-profit world are ill-paid, and constant pleas for "donations" rub against the reality of rent and groceries. This kind of rationalization of the system is accompanied by facile assumptions about what constitutes a well-rounded organizer, as when Paula Rojas writes that her daughter and partner "have taught me more than I could have learned in ten years of radical organizing as a single "organizer" with no dependents." Surely, whatever else ails radical organizing: it's not a dearth of coupledom or maternal feeling.
While this anthology provides a much-needed critical perspective on the NPIC, it also suggests that it cannot fix its problems through se If-reflection. As Dylan Rodgriguez points out in "The Political logic of the Non-Profit Industrial Complex," the NPIC has become for many "...literally, a way of knowing social change." Nonprofits were meant to provide alternative spaces for political organizing. But for generations who have known only the NPIC as a site of organizing, it's not a place to put their politics to practice: it is their politics. Those wondering about how to organize in what Gilmore calls "the shadow of the shadow state" can only ask themselves: "Should I stay or should I go?"
AuthorAffiliation E-mail Yasmin Nair at welshzen@yahoo. com; she also blogs at bilerico.com.

Subject: Book reviews; Nonfiction; Poverty; Nonprofit organizations; Domestic violence; Fund raising

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: The Revolution Will Not Be Funded: Beyond the Non-Profit Industrial Complex

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 23

Issue: 25

Pages: 19

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2008

Publication date: Mar 5, 2008

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Book Review

ProQuest document ID: 432798007

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/revolution-will-not-be-funded-beyond-non-profit/docview/432798007/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Mar 5, 2008

Last updated: 2023-08-25

Database: GenderWatch

____________________________________________________________

Contact us at: http://about.proquest.com/go/pqissupportcontact
Database copyright © 2024 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions: https://www.proquest.com/info/termsAndConditions