_______________

Talking with the ladies behind the BlogHer conference

Author: Toce, Sarah

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/talking-with-ladies-behind-blogher-conference/docview/1557645904/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: KB: I recently graduated with my master's in education. I'm searching for a teaching job while balanring my online identity and performing poet identity with my teaching identity. While I'm extremely proud of the identity and following I've developed online as a blogger and performing poet, it has actually presented me with unexpected challenges in finding a job.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=42&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2013-07-24&amp;atitle=Talking+with+the+ladies+behind+the+BlogHer+conference&amp;au=Toce%2C+Sarah&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=28&amp;issue=42&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=10&amp;date=2013-07-24&amp;atitle=Talking+with+the+ladies+behind+the+BlogHer+conference&amp;au=Toce%2C+Sarah&amp;id=doi:

Full text:   Around the same time as AOL chatrooms and instant messaging (remember them?), blogging became the new "It" thing to do in households criss-crossing America-and around the world. It was basically a new age media cornucopia of possibilities. Need a roommate? Check out the chat board. Looking for an old friend from high school? Search CLassmates.com.
If you don't remember a time before Facebook and Twitter, I'm not sure what to do with you.
A few ladies got together in the mid-2000s to seek out Like-minded women who shared a wealth of knowledge technologically, but were nowhere to be found in human form. Poof! BlogHer was born.
According to the conference's official website, in 2005, BLogHer Co-founders Elisa Camahort Page, Jory Des Jardins and Lisa Stone held a conference to answer the question, "Where are all the women who bLog?" Today, BlogHer conferences bring together thousands of these women from around the world to discuss, inspire and connect with each other.
Windy City Times put together a roundtable discussion featuring the top brass at this year's BLogHer conference.
Windy City Times: As a strong female role model, was there a specific event that enabled you to find your inner strength?
Deb Rox (Deb on the Rocks): In my 20s I felt pretty disconnected until I started volunteering and signed up to work on an early rape-crisis/ domestic-violence hotline. That was when things clicked for me and I found more understanding and internal and community strength than I knew I had been missing.
That was decades ago, but I can still picture the cramped training room where we Listened for the 40-hour session about all sorts of anti-oppression thinking and empowerment techniques that I had never been exposed to before. Training about responding to violence against women and the subsequent work I did in that emerging field helped me understand our culture, myself and how to be with others.
Deborah Goldstein (Peaches & Coconuts): The first spoken-word event I did forced me to present my written words aloud and receive reactions in real time, on real faces, right in front of me. I don't shy from public speaking usually. My sales background provided a particular type of presentation acumen, but reading my own creative writing in front of strangers introduced me to a special brand of vulnerability. In 2010, I was selected to read a piece at BLogHer's Voices of the Year community keynote along with 14 chosen bloggers in front of hundreds of my peers. It was a terrifying and exhilarating experience which gave me the confidence I needed to write that memoir.
Kailynn Barbour (GingerSass): I've spent the past five years being involved with the LGBTQQIA community at Rutgers University in New Jersey. My involvement started with me trying to find someplace to fit in and come to terms with my sexuality, and it evolved into me being an unintentional student Leader and activist on campus.
After the TyLer dementi incident at Rutgers, which threw many of my areles and communities into national spotlight, I became a support system for many of my friends and student Leaders in more visible Leadership positions on campus. Ultimately, however, it was the unfortunate suidde of my friend and mentor that forced me to find my inner strength and to be strong for not only myself, but for my friends reeling from her death as well. In a weird way, her death actually led to a year of self-discovery for me, which eventually Led to me starting my bLog, GingerSass.
Lauren Marie Fleming (Queerie Bradshaw): My very first BlogHer changed QueerieBradshaw.com from a bLog I updated occasionally to a multiplatform brand. It not only convinced me to take my websites, online writing classes and consulting business as seriously as I would a physical office space, but it also gave me the skills and connections I needed to make it happen.
If it weren't for BlogHer, I'd have never had the idea to turn my bLog into a memoir, and now, two years Later, I have an agent shopping my book. Information I got from BLogHer's BLog to Book seminars helped me every step of the way. There's also something wonderful about seeing a Large group of women helping each other make it as businesswomen, instead of seeing each other as competition, something I saw too often in my other career fields.
Stacy Jill Calvert (Geek Till You Drop): I have had many amazing experiences throughout my professional career, but my most recent accomplishments are pivotal in the next phase of my Life. I was diagnosed with adult ADD [attention defidt disorder] five years ago and was able to document that struggle in a film that I produced Last year called A Million Directions. One portion of the film details my problems as a young woman in college because of my inability to concentrate.
This summer, I am happy to say that I am graduating with my M.S in media management from Southern Illinois University. I'm returning in the fall to continue my education by pursuing the MFA in media arts. This degree will allow me to continue down this creative path, but also allow me to pay it forward and help the next generation of media makers Learn how to express themselves.
WCT: Professionally speaking, what challenges do you feel you have faced and overcome being a strong businesswoman?
DR: Challenges for women entrepreneurs are Like pool balls: There are Lots, but we just have to hit them with a hard break and then knock them off one by one. I've had to teach myself a Lot, but now that I am a development and communications consultant for both businesses and non-profits, teaching myself about everything turned out to be great training that helped me gain a facility with working with Lots of different clients, vendors or problems.
DG: I am my own worst enemy. I am riskaverse by nature which bodes well in certain, dangerous situations. In the business world and creative world, however, being risk-averse is a career-stopper. My experience has proven that women, in general, take fewer risks than men. Whether that has to do with confidence or fear of failure or a feeling connected to and responsible for others, I'm sure I couldn't say, but the most successful people in business and the arts are those people who take risks. When I truly believe that I have nothing to Lose, and I recognize that success far outweighs failure, I can ignore my inner voices and focus on the task at hand. I can't say enough about working with creative coaches and other writers who provide perspective and invaluable feedback. They have kept me on track and challenged me to work harder and expect more. In addition to writing, I've teamed up with a sensational group of writers and editors to Launch VillageQ.com, an online destination where the LGBTQ community and our allies support and celebrate queer families. I could not have imagined myself in this role had I not worked with these talented individuals in the blogging world. Connection is essential in all industries.
KB: I recently graduated with my master's in education. I'm searching for a teaching job while balanring my online identity and performing poet identity with my teaching identity. While I'm extremely proud of the identity and following I've developed online as a blogger and performing poet, it has actually presented me with unexpected challenges in finding a job. It's still a struggle, but I'm starting to receive interviews from schools that have been un-phased by my multiple identities and successes ... or haven't Googled me yet!
LF: I went to law school and, as much as that boosted my knowledge base and made me a better businesswoman, it had the unfortunate side effect of reinforring the concept that there was one spot for a minority in each firm. This Led to the idea that we were each other's competition, not support system. I Love BLogHer Keynote Speaker Randi Zuckerberg's concept of encouraging women to grab a seat at the table and Lean in to each other for support, instead of seeing each other as threats. Women in business are starting to move forward and bring others with them to the top.
SC: I feel that the one thing that I have found in the past few years is my own voice. When I was younger, I was afraid to speak up, afraid to voice my own opinion. Once I found the strength to do that, it has helped me immensely in not only my professional Life, both other aspects as well.
WCT: What challenges still exist?
DR: FinanriaL equity is still a challenge for women founders and business developers. Finding champions and investors means dissolving some old ways of thinking in the systems with access to resources, ramping up creatively and building strong networks and pipelines of our own. In mentoring other women and LGBT business owners I also see that we continually have to coach ourselves to stop riding the brakes. We're often working without a net and with external pressure to stay small so it takes courage, but allowing momentum to build without selflimiting is powerful.
DG: My biggest challenge has always been settling for the calm that follows success. Every time I achieve a goal, I hear my inner voice saying, "Ok, now you can put your feet up because you accomplished what you set out to do. You don't need to prove to anyone that you can do more than that. You're good." But if I'm not working towards something, I eventually feel Lost. That's when I need my support network to help me rally on take on the next challenge.
KB: I regularly struggle with the intersection of my identities as an educator, a poet, a blogger, and an out Lesbian woman. All four identities are a huge part of who I am, but when they intersect, despite all of the progress that our country has made, they are met with some hesitation. Only 21 states have laws that ban discrimination based on sexual orientation, which means I could be fired in 29 states for being a teacher who happens to be Lesbian. Luckily I Live in one of those states that protects my rights, but I still bet that a Lot of school districts Googled my name upon receiving my application, saw the pages and pages of me being Listed as an "out Lesbian poet," and moved on to a different applicant. There has been a Lot of exdtement and momentum in the United States these past few weeks, but that doesn't mean that queer people don't face any challenges. Marriage equality certainly isn't the only challenge existing in our country right now, and it won't be the Last for LGBTQQIA Americans.
LF: Naps. My Love of naps is still my biggest challenge as someone who works from home.
SC: There are a Lot of challenges for queer women in business and that includes having our voices heard. However, I believe that the blogging community has opened that door for many of us and will continue to do so.
Read the entire conversation at www. win dycity me diagro up. com/Igbt/Can didroundtable-with-ladies-of-the-BlogHer-Conference/43765.html.

Subject: Writers; Role models; Gays & lesbians; Women; Blogs

People: Goldstein, Deborah; Rox, Deb; Barbour, Kailynn

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: Talking with the ladies behind the BlogHer conference

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 28

Issue: 42

Pages: 10

Number of pages: 1

Publication year: 2013

Publication date: Jul 24, 2013

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 1557645904

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/talking-with-ladies-behind-blogher-conference/docview/1557645904/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jul 24, 2013

Last updated: 2023-09-18

Database: GenderWatch


