_______________

30 UNDER THIRTY 2008

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/30-under-thirty-2008/docview/432798812/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: At age 20, [LIZ MARR] and her friend R.J. Sarna started a group called Pride Gathering, which threw picnics in the suburbs. At age 26, Marr decided to reform the group and make it bigger with more of a purpose. With the help of her friends, lead photographer Nick Miller, lead promoter Brad Stone, co-founder R.J.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=41&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=33&amp;date=2008-06-25&amp;atitle=30+UNDER+THIRTY+2008&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=23&amp;issue=41&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=33&amp;date=2008-06-25&amp;atitle=30+UNDER+THIRTY+2008&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: CHRIS JESSUP
21, CIVIL-UNIONS ADVOCATE
Chris Jessup, 21, a native of Roswell, N. M., came to Chicago in June 2005 after graduating from Robert H. Goddard High School.
Jessup currently attends DePaul University, where he just completed his third year as an undergraduate student double majoring in political science and women's and gender studies with concentrations in public policy and social justice. He is seeking a minor in LGBT studies. He was recently accepted into the women's and gender studies five-year Bachelor's and Master's program, and will start graduate studies this fall.
He is a co-founder and lead organizer of the Web site, Civilunionsillinois.org., which was born out of the grassroots efforts of over 8,000 young Illinoisans on campuses across the state who want a better life for themselves, as well as a more just and progressive Illinois.
Inspired by these young people who came together online to support equality and fairness, CivilUnionsIllinois.org works in conjunction with Equality Illinois, the ACLU, Lambda Legal, Equal Marriage Illinois, Stonewall Democrats, Young College Democrats, Log Cabin Republicans, Parents and Friends of Lesbians and Gays, Human Rights Campaign and Gill Action Fund to promote civil unions in Illinois.
CivilUnionsIllinois.org is dedicated to generating grassroots support for Illinois House Bill 1826, which would provide committed opposite-sex, same-sex and senior couples with basic, fundamental rights under state law. Whether on college campuses, online forums or the main streets of Illinois towns, CivilUnionsIllinois.org is mobilizing and educating voters to support equality and fairness. As lead organizer, Chris speaks to multiple student and senior groups and others interested in marriage equality and civil unions about the importance of civil unions in Illinois.
DID YOU KNOW? Chris is the oldest of five and is a member of Delta Tau Delta International Fraternity, Iota Alpha Chapter.
JEN RUDE
28, ASSOCIATE PASTOR
Jen Rude is a 28-year-old Pi- sces. She knows all the 50 states in alphabetical order and has lived in six of them, having moved to Chi- cago three years ago. Although as a child she aspired to be the first woman president of the United States, she currently serves as associate pastor at Resur- rection Lutheran Church in Lakeview and on the Youth Outreach Team at The Night Ministry (working with young people who are experiencing homelessness and queer youth). Rude was the 12th "extraordinarily" ordained queer Lutheran pastor in November 2007. She graduated from Augustana College in South Dakota, and then thought she would try a more progressive and queer-friendly area of the country. In Berkeley, CaL, she earned her Master's from Pacific School of Religion and learned why the city is affectionately nicknamed "Bezerkeley." Her favorite things about Chicago include the lake, summer festivals, public transit and Midwestern friendliness.
DID YOU KNOW? A childhood gymnast, Rude has been sighted more than once doing cartwheels on the streets of Chicago. Her first job was at Dairy Queen and she continues to love ice cream and all things sugary. As for her childhood, although she doesn't remember it, surely her subconscious is still working through the trauma of the time when she was two and a half years old and she slept through the whole night with a dead mouse in the foot of her pajamas. She is not a fan of animals to this day.
PATRICIA POSEY
22, HOMELESS-YOUTH ACTIVIST
Patricia Posey, 22, was born and raised in Chicago's South Side in a single-parent home. Although both her mother and father were figures throughout her life, she faced serious trails alone. Posey attended Hyde Park High School from 1999 to 2004. She repeated her senior year due to the harsh realities of living an openly gay life. In November 2004, she became permanently homeless after her mother discovered she was a lesbian. In turn, she moved into a transitional shelter that became her home for the next four years. In January 2004, she was elected the GLBTQ chair of the National Network for Youth policy board. Posey served for two years before her advancement to the executive board. She is currently working for the state of Illinois and continues her quest to end youth homelessness.
DID YOU KNOW? Posey has started attending college. She participates in extracurricular activities, including college basketball.
MICHAEL VINSON
23, SCHOLAR
Michael L. Vinson, 23, is a Jackie Robinson Foundation Scholar and the African-American Fellow at Steppenwolf Theatre Company. A graduate of Harvard University, where he received his bachelor's in government, Vinson was an active member of the John F. Kennedy Institute of Politics and served as the first openly gay president of the Kuumba Singers, an ethnically diverse choir that specializes in gospel, African folk songs and Negro spirituals. As president, he was able to secure the Rev. Peter J. Gomes, Plummer Professor of Christian Morals and Pusey Minister in the Memorial Church, to serve as a faculty advisor.
Additionally, Michael co-founded Blackout, a safe, confidential space for exploring issues of sexuality and gender for African-American students. A venue for soulful, affirming conversation, BlackOut gave students (whether out of the closet or not) an opportunity to dialogue with each other about the unique challenges gay, transgender, and questioning AfricanAmerican young people face.
DID YOU KNOW? A native of Atlanta, Ga., Vinson is still trying to memorize the "L" map, accept the horrendous winter weather and embrace the Cubs (not the Sox). He witnessed the end of "the curse" in Boston-perhaps he can work a little magic in Chicago, as well.
RAY PRATHER
27, ATTORNEY
Ray Prather, 27, is the owner of Prath- er Law Office, a law firm dedicated to estate planning, probate and related litigation. His prac- tice includes help- ing couples and individuals achieve their diverse estate planning and chari- table giving goals. Prather presented and participated in panels relating to estate planning including "Estate Planning for LGBT Couples" at Howard Brown, "Money Matters Workshop: Financial and Estate Planning" at Center on Halsted and "Take the Power Symposium: Strategies for Life and Financial Planning" for Lambda Legal.
Prather has been a key leadership volunteer with Lambda Legal for the last two years. He began in 2006 as a legal intern in the Midwest Regional Office, where he assisted Lambda attorneys on issues related to freedom of speech (providing research for Lambda Legal's amicus curiae brief in the "Bong hits 4 Jesus" case, Morse v. Frederick, before the U.S. Supreme Court), equal protection and due process in the Iowa marriage case and sexual orientation discrimination in the workplace. He is a founding member of Lambda's Chicago Leadership Council and has organized Lambda Legal's Market Days presence last year, as well as this August.
He was recently appointed to Lambda Legal's National Planned Giving Council and is serving his second year as a member of the Illinois State Bar Association's Standing Committee on Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity, where he is on the awards subcommittee. Ray graduated from Augustana College with a degree in accounting and received his J.D. from the DePaul University College of Law. Ray's prior experience includes clerking for Supervising Judge Drella Savage in the Domestic Relations Division of Cook County Circuit Court.
DID YOU KNOW? Prather ran cross country and track in college and recently took up cooking (including brunch involving fried oyster omelets).
GABRIELA ZAPATA
25, COUNSELOR/MUSICIAN
Gabriela Zapata is a 25-year-old queer Latina who moved to Chicago in 2005. She has worked in the HIV field since then as a case manager, preven- tion counselor and as co-found- er of the Advoca- cy Committee at Chicago House. She is very ac- tive in her com- munity, and was a central organizer of Ladyfest Chicago 2007, a grassroots festival celebrating women in activism and the arts that raised over $3,000 for the Chicago Women's Health Center and Rape Victims Advocates.
Zapata plays the saxophone and trumpet, and sings in local queer feminist punk band The Pussy Pirates, who have performed to raise money and awareness for activist organizations, including HIV/AIDS Resource Center and Food Not Bombs. The Pussy Pirates enjoy support from Riot Grrrl Ink, the largest LGBTQ label in the world, and are looking forward to releasing their second full-length album in the fall. She has been playing classical piano since she was 3, and counts it among her most favorite things to do. Her other passions include nature, poetry, socialjustice, pizza, religion, body modification, literature, travel, language, riding her bike, recycling, animal rights, solitude, long-boarding and chocolate.
DID YOU KNOW? Gabriela loves her neighborhood, where she lives with her long term companion and is the proud mother of two doggies who brighten her every day with their fiendish humor and devilish talents.
ANNIE GREGORY
28, GRANT AND CONTRACT MANAGER
Annie Gregory, 28, currently is the manager of grant and con- tract compli- ance at Howard Brown Health Center. In this role, she helps ensure Howard Brown's compliance with fiscal, legal and programmatic requirements. In addition, she improves the lives of LGBT people by developing and maintaining grants and programs for vital health and wellness services. She has a particular interest in the development of programs addressing the health disparities experienced by lesbians, racial/ethnic minorities and transgender persons.
A 2005 graduate of Depaul University College of Law, she was a board member of DePaul's Public Interest Law Association and the DePaul Outlaws. She was also a member of the DePaul Journal of Sports Law and Contemporary Problems, an academic journal in which she published an article about homophobia and discrimination based on sexual orientation in athletics.
DID YOU KNOW? Annie's first job was detassling corn in rural Illinois when she was 14.
LIESEL S. FISCHER
28, ARTIST
Liesel S. Fischer, 28, has been advocating for LGBT rights for over a decade. Born prematurely on a bus while her parents were vacationing in Italy, Fischer was already fighting as she entered into the world. She feels that it is only natural for her to continue advocating for the issues she believes in.
Originally from Iowa, she has lived and traveled abroad extensively, and became proficient in German while studying at the University of Lüneburg in German.
Fischer is now a Chicago artist who has donated dozens of pieces to various charitable organizations, including the Center on Halsted, Howard Brown Health Center, Heartland Alliance's annual Art Against AIDS event and the Tri-State AIDS Christmas Project.
She has been a Junior Board member with Heartland Alliance for Human Needs & Human Rights since 2005, and was recently elected to serve as the Board's Benefits Chair/Vice President. She acted as Art Chair for Heartland Alliance's 2008 Art Against AIDS event, which became the most successful event in the event's history. She has been an active volunteer with several local and national LGBT supportive political campaigns, and is currently a member of Human Rights Campaign and Stonewall Democrats.
Fischer also participated with her softball team in the 2006 Chicago Gay Games. Currently, she is working on her doctorate in clinical psychology, with an emphasis on diversity, gender and LGBT issues.
DID YOU KNOW? Fischer also volunteers as an events coordinator for Tellofilms.com, which is a lesbian entertainment Web company based in Chicago.
WILL WHITE
27, SINGER
Will White, 27, was born in Punta Gorda, Fla., on the Gulf-south of Tampa and Sarasota.
After his partner Matt and his wonderful family, his number-one passion is singing, although he does enjoy good friends and great wine whenever possible! He has been truly blessed to work with the Chicago Gay Men's Chorus over the past five years. Interestingly enough, he has been featured in leading female roles with CGMC so much that authence members still have a hard time believing he's actually a man! What we endure for our love of the theater. Let's face it, roles are tough to find when you're an upper tenor who looks good in a dress!
White actually has been out and proud since the age of 14. As the only out gay student in his high school, Will fought for the first LGBT student organization, which was founded upon his graduation. Since moving to Chicago, Will has also broken barriers in the workplace. While working as the faculty coordinator at Northwestern University's law school, he urged his department to become "safe-space certified"; those spaces let gay students know where they can turn for support.
White would like to thank Windy City Times for this honor and thanks Lee Neubecker for his support and nomination. Most importantly, he gratefully acknowledges the work of the Chicago Gay Men's Chorus and his friend Patrick Sinozich, CGMC's artistic director.
DID YOU KNOW? White moved to Chicago in 2002 when the heat of the South became too much to bear.
LIZ MARR
26, ROCKINPRIDE CO-FOUNDER
R.J. SARNA
26, ROCKINPRIDE CO-FOUNDER
At age 20, Liz Marr and her friend R.J. Sarna started a group called Pride Gathering, which threw picnics in the suburbs. At age 26, Marr decided to reform the group and make it bigger with more of a purpose. With the help of her friends, lead photographer Nick Miller, lead promoter Brad Stone, co-founder R.J. Sarna and the newest member, her fiancé, photographer Brittany Whittemore, they started making a Myspace site that provided info on youth groups, gay friendly businesses, gay friendly groups and events. Rockin Pride also helps with clubs and groups starting out in the suburbs that are open to the LGBT community and want to spread the word. R.J. Sarna, 26, has always felt a desire to promote LGBT equality and awareness. At Loyola University Chicago, his interest piqued in the campus LGBT organization, where he remained active in as an undergraduate and co-chaired as a senior. During his tenure, he organized fundraisers and events, helped bring the AIDS Quilt to campus, participated in the Day of Silence and invited high-profile speakers like Danny Roberts from "Real World: New Orleans" and Kyan Douglas from "Queer Eye for the Straight Guy" to speak about their experiences. In addition to his work with Rockin Pride and preparing for the Dental Admissions Test (DAT), Sarna co-hosted a podcast, the Daily4Play, that combined his two passions-health care and the LGBT community.
DID YOU KNOW? Sarna hopes to enter dental school in the fall of 2009, and eventually do research and cater his practice to a largely LGBT clientele.
ERNETTA PROCTER
23, PERFORMANCE ARTIST
Every day is a prosperous day for artist and author Emetta Procter, 23. Better known as "Phenomenon" by the performance arts community, she has stunned many onlookers with her persistence and progression. In 2007, her performance pieces of poetry were released on audio entitled "Hood Politics," causing a riotous reaction from suburbia due to the urban reality depicted in her work.
This revolutionary continues to use her poised persona and anointed gift for poetry as a spoken-word artist to educate and mentor at risk youth. Along with pursuing a career in English and communications, the youthful powerhouse has dedicated her time and talent to many nonprofit agencies for positive causes. From the Forces of Nature Dance Company and 21 Brothers Organization of Masons and Eastern Stars, to the Department Of Children and Family Services Transitional Homes, Procter is on a mission.
The 2007 Truth award for best poet was issued to the Verbal Balance Poetry Ensemble, in which Procter is a neophyte and active member. This touring artist and slam champion also finds time in her schedule to teach performance poetry for the Art Music Poetry Program.
Today, she continues to work toward her personal goals, such as the release of her first book, The Lesbian Chronicles, which exposes the urban lesbian lifestyle of African-American women. She also continues to work toward being a positive role model for LGBT and AfricanAmerican youth.
DID YOU KNOW? She will stampede children and helpless pets, just to catch an ice cream truck. She's not proud of it but, hey, it's life. Ice cream ROCKS!
JULIEN JACQUET
30, GAY GAMES VOLUNTEER
Julien Jacquet, 30 (29 at the time he was nominated), is a French citizen permanently living in Chicago since 2004. He was the co-chief informa- tion officer of the Chicago Gay Games. Thanks to a network of some of the best LGBTA professionals and volunteers in Chicago and around the world, he successfully led the delivery of the technology that supported the event.
Jacquet credits the great spirit of participation, inclusion and personal best found in all the partners and volunteers of the Gay Games for the success of the event. He hopes to reconnect with these amazing LGBT key players in a similar context as he aspires to work for the Chicago 2016 Olympics once done with his master's.
He is a graduate from Sorbonne University, the Ecole Superieure d'Informatique-Electronique-Automatique and the Illinois Institute of Technology, and is a current student at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University.
Jacquet is also the co-chair and co-founder of the LGBT network of his company, the world's fifth-largest investment bank, where he is currently employed in the Chicago financial market section as the ranking technology officer. With his group, he participated in diversity events in Edinburgh, Scotland, and has encouraged senior management to tap into their diverse workforce with the help of organizations such as Stonewall UK.
He has lived and worked in London, Sydney, Hong-Kong, Tokyo and Paris.
He participated in programs run by the AIDS Council of New South Wales (ACON) in Australia and worked as a volunteer for the Sydney 2002 Gay Games.
DID YOU KNOW? A fun, unexpected thing happened to Jacquet at the closing ceremony of the Gay Games. After a rehearsal with Mayor Daley and other staff and volunteers, he enjoyed a dance with one of his friends to the music of Cyndi Lauper, who was doing her own rehearsal in the empty stadium.
MYRL BEAM
25, TRANS-YOUTH WORKER
Myrl Beam, 25, is a self-described "transfaggot" youth worker in the struggle. He currently works as the transgender care coordinator at Howard Brown Health Center, working primarily as a case manager in the daily drop-in program with trans and gender non-conforming youth experiencing homelessness.
Beam is also very involved in anti-violence and social-justice activism, currently working with the Chicago Queer Transformative Justice Working Group and providing trainings and workshops throughout Chicago.
DID YOU KNOW? A graduate of Oberlin College, Beam enjoys Bravo reality television, gardening on his back porch and being the godparent of a chihuahua named Chanel.
ALI ABBAS
20, SCHOLAR/ACTIVIST
Ali Abbas is an American by way of Lebanon. He was born in the Western suburb of Carol Stream, Ill., after his parents fled their invaded home country. Abbas came out during his senior years of high school, and faced objection by his parents and alienation from the LGBT community. This inspired him to do volunteer work that focuses on raising awareness of LGBT issues on a global scale and raising awareness of hateful policies within the LGBT community.
In 2007, Abbas was named a Point Foundation Scholar. The Point Foundation is the country's largest publicly supported organization that grants scholarships to LGBT students.
Abbas is a philosophy major. His areas of interest range from inter-community identity politics, economic analysis and foreign policy. A student at DePaul University, his current projects include a piece on "The Boondocks," using the television show as a case study for the analysis of communities and applying that to the current identity crisis facing the LGBTQ community in terms of marriage "equality." Another project focuses on ending the occupation of Palestine and Iraq and working towards economic equality in trans-continental labor industries.
Abbas is also a published writer. His work, which aims to advocate for greater acceptance within the LGBT community, among other issues, has appeared in several local newspapers.
DID YOU KNOW? He is a fan of "The Boondocks" and Pugs. He also secretly makes digital music in his free time.
TAYLOR CASEY
25, TRANS YOUTH ADVOCATE
Taylor Casey, 25, has been with Broadway Youth Center (BYC) a year now, working on the Life Skills project. Life Skills is an HIV Intervention for young transgender women, which Taylor co-facilitates and does massive recruitment and retention work for.
Since being at BYC, Casey has become even more involved, serving on numerous community committees, doing speaking engagements and co-facilitating trans-inclusion trainings for schools, businesses and other non-profits. In addition, she has become an integral part of the Trans Youth Resources and Advocacy (TYRA) drop-in team, providing a weekly safe space for trans youth of all varieties to come, socialize and build community together. Her work, her passion and her commitment have made her a central figure in Chicago's LGBTQ youth community. Her mission, within all of this work, is to promote healthy attitudes about gender expression, including the idea that one does not have to aim to "become" a woman or a man-that being trans (or anywhere along the wonderful gender spectrum) is beautiful all by itself.
DID YOU KNOW? Before Life Skills, Casey was very active within the LGBTQ community, serving as a mentor to many young trans people.
BETHANY MINOR
23, LCCP ADVISORY BOARD MEMBER
Bethany Minor is a 2008 graduate of Northwestern University, where she majored in history and political science, with a minor in Asian-American studies.
She is originally from Senatobia, Miss., but grew up in Memphis, Tenn. She has been a resident of Chicago for about two and a half years.
Minor was a counselor with the LGBT Center at Duke University in Durham, N.C., before moving to Chicago. She first became active in LGBT organizations in the Chicagoland area with the Rainbow Alliance at Northwestern. She served as social chair, which gave her the opportunity to get better acquainted with other collegiate LGBT organizations around Chicago, such as DePaul and Loyola. Continuing her social activities, she also has done promotional work throughout Chicago.
Beginning in the summer of 2006, she began a very productive relationship with the Lesbian Community Care Project (LCCP) as an intern. Since then, she has had the honor of spearheading outreach efforts for LCCP at events like Northalsted Market Days and the Andersonville Midsommarfest. She also served as a board member for the 2007 LCCP Ball, which is the largest event for LBT women in the Midwest. She has recently been asked to further her commitment to LBT women health issues in Chicago by joining the LCCP advisory board.
She plans to attend graduate school next year, where she hopes to pursue a degree that will allow her to continue her passion for advocacy work in women's health.
DID YOU KNOW? She has 10 tattoos and is planning her next one as you read this.
MADSEN MINAX
25, MUSICIAN
Madsen Minax, 25, is a multimedia artist, musician and activist. After growing up in the scenic woods of northern Michigan, he trained as a filmmaker at The School of the Art Institute of Chicago and classical quartet composer at Hogeschool voor Muziek en Technologie in Utrectht, The Netherlands.
Minax spends much of his time playing upright bass in the duet music project Actor Slash Model, utilizing songwriting and vaudevillian performance to address political issues, identity, queerness and kink. In addition to music performance, Actor Slash Model also collaborates in other media; the duo are currently producing an experimental documentary exploring trans and gender variant identities as they related to music and performance, wherein Minax is directing his first feature-length film, scheduled for completion in 2009.
The project has received two consecutive Chicago Artist Assistance Program grants through the Illinois Arts Council and Department of Cultural Affairs, as well as the Crossroads Fund Fire This Time Grant 2007.
Minax's films have screened nationally and internationally in cities including Chicago, New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Seattle, Berlin, Germany, Copenhagen, Denmark, Sydney and Perth, Australia.
His other current projects include co-organizing "Threat Level Queer Shorts," a bimonthly film and video-screening series to showcase independent work made by queer filmmakers internationally. He also works with Beyondmedia Education as a videographer and editor with a current focus in HIV/AIDS prevention education.
DID YOU KNOW? Minax is an active participant in Chicago leather culture, working hard to bridge the gap between gay male leather culture and the interrelated issues of kink in queemess and trans identity through volunteer work and workshop facilitation. Minax is also a volunteer and member of The Leather Archives and Museum in Chicago.
JASMINE THURMOND
22, TUTOR/RADIO CO-HOST
Jasmine Thurmond, 22, is a Chicago native. She recently made her return to the city after a two-year residency in Jackson, Miss. As a student at Jackson State University, she dedicated her leisure time to the organization IamSeven, which focuses on exposing underprivileged youth to art culture.
Now residing in Chicago, Thurmond has a personal academic tutoring small business for youth in pre-kindergarten through 12th grades, where she seeks to not only educate youth, but also positively guide them into success. She is a student at Chicago State University, where she is an avid volunteer in the Gwendolyn Brooks Writing Center and vice-president of the LGBTQ organization Helping Educate Regarding Orientation (HERO). She is fulfilling a longtime dream of hers as she wears the hat of "G-Spot Radio Show" co-host. The "G-Spot" is an Internet radio show geared towards an authence of LGBTQQ women. On the show, Thurmond focuses on discussing issues that are relevant to the women of her community, while also including pertinent topics from popular culture.
DID YOU KNOW? In her free time, she volunteers at the Center on Halsted, performs at Pow Wow Poetry Night and attends live music
ANDRE BROWN
25, HIV-PREVENTION COORDINATOR
Andre Brown is currently the Youth HIV Pre- vention Program Coordinator at the Broadway Youth Center (BYC). In his position, Brown works to provide HIV and STD testing, health education programming and a variety of outreach programs to young people ages 12 to 24 years old. He enjoys working with young people and finds the relationships he builds with them to be the most valuable and rewarding part of his job.
A native of Flint, Mich., Brown came to Chicago in 2007 after completing his Master's in public health at the University of North Carolina. He has been doing HIV prevention work since 2002, while a student at the University of Michigan. His travels to South Africa in 2003 to do HIV prevention work solidified his desire to dedicate his work to addressing the issues related to this disease.
DID YOU KNOW? Brown's secret passion in life is music. He enjoys listening to music (live and on CD), wants to learn the piano and wants to record an album.
LAURA VELASZQUEZ
29, ANTI-VIOLENCE ADVOCATE
Laura Velazquez started with Cen- ter on Halsted as the victim advoca- cy coordinator in 2004. Her 11 years of experience in anti-violence ad- vocacy includes her time as a vic- tim legal advocate at a domestic violence shelter and as a police officer in the Western suburbs, where she saw first-hand the legal issues faced by victims of violence. She has training certificates in both domestic violence and sexual assault crisis intervention, and is active nationally in prevention, education and outreach efforts that increase the awareness of violence issues in the LGBT community.
Velazquez received her law enforcement training in 2002 at the Illinois State Police Academy in Springfield, Ill., where she lived for 12 weeks of paramilitary instruction. Laura graduated as the recruit class vice president.
While serving as a police officer, she continued her fitness training and returned to boxing classes. Laura previously boxed at a gym where she and her best friend were the only females in class. During a boxing workout, Laura broke her "gun" hand, resulting in her leaving the force shortly after. That is when Laura left her hometown of Aurora and moved to Chicago.
DID YOU KNOW? In her free time, Velazquez enjoys cheering for the White Sox and Bears, is a music and movie buff that include classics, especially Audrey Hepburn features. If you have ever met her, she will shake your hand and may ask "How do you do?" in honor of Eliza Doolittle, Hepburn's character in "My Fair Lady."
TIMOTHY BECHTEL
29, CLIENT-SERVICES COORDINATOR
Fluent in Span- ish, Timothy Bechtel is cur- rently the client services coor- dinator for the Mental Health Program at the Center on Hal- sted, providing culturally compe- tent mental health services to the Center's Latino and English-speaking consumers. He serves as a full member of the Chicago Department of Public Health HIV Prevention and Planning Group, and he facilitates an ongoing support group for LGBT individuals with HIV.
Bechtel graduated with a master's in social service administration from the University of Chicago, where he interned at the Marjorie Kovler Center for the Treatment of Survivors of Torture and International Faces, two programs of Heartland Health Outreach that work with immigrants and political refugees. Tim also served in the Peace Corps for two years, working as a health promoter for the public school system in Guatemala. He is currently completing his hours for his license in clinical social work, which he is scheduled to receive by the end of this year.
DID YOU KNOW? Bechtel picked up the guitar about four years ago, and continues to struggle with it. Also, he has not paid for a haircut since high school!
DANIEL POHL
29, DISEASE INTERVENTION SPECIALIST
Since coming out to mostly not surprised and very supportive friends and family starting at age 15, Dan- iel Pohl, 29, has been involved in helping the LGBT community. After unsuccessful attempts to start the Rockford area's first GSA at Harlem High School and to convince Rockford's adult LGBT organization to host a youth group, he went on to be active in UIUC's queer community and, in 1999, co-founded the Coming Out Support Group for students there that endures to this day.
Shortly after graduation, Pohl was hired in October 2001 as an HIV/STD health educator at Howard Brown Health Center, where he continues to work in the field of prevention as manager of Disease Intervention Services. This program was created in partnership with the Chicago Department of Public Health as a response to increased rates of syphilis among men who have sex with men, and has evolved into a nationally recognized model of cooperation between a community-based organization and a health department. Day-to-day, he talks primarily with gay or bisexual men to find out if they have syphilis, HIV and/or other STDs and answers questions, gives information and encourages them to tell sexual partners or to allow him to do anonymous partner notification on their behalf. He has participated in technical assistance and cultural competency trainings with numerous health departments and national organizations and has been a contributor to research that highlights the program's successes, as well as its approach to using the internet to locate and inform sexual partners of potential exposure to STDs.
When he's not "stomping out syphilis," Pohl enjoys catching up with friends, da Cubs, playing Softball (go Elephants!) and spending quality time with Chad, Tussy and Ramen.
DID YOU KNOW? He loves both karaoke and skinny dipping, even though people cringe at both!
DEREK BRITTON
25, AIDS ADVOCATE
Derek Britton is a force to be reck- oned with in the LGBT community. His passion to in- crease awareness of the affect of HIV amongst his peers led him to become a found- ing member of the AIDS Foundation of Chicago (AFC) Junior Board. He has served as a reader on the Junior Board's executive committee and social and p~anning committee since its 2005 inception, and ako as vice president and acting president in 2007. Britton has been a contributor to many AFC events induding the AIDS Run/Walk, Wodd of Chocolate, and the Junior Board's own Blue Bash and Make a Statement: Design for the Cure. He has ako served on the benefit committee of Dance for Life Chicago since 2006.
Britton has ako prayed a hand in LGBT advocacy by co-creating HomosAreAHoot.com, an organization that creates opportunities for fun, cheeky and styhsh ways to give back to LGBT charities of choice. Currenfly, Campus Pride, PFLAG and The Point Foundation are beneficiaries.
DID YOU KNOW? In the professional world, Britton serves as the director of marketing for Chicago-based travel technology group. He is a graduate of London College of Communication, University of the Arts London and lives in Humboldt Park.
LISA KATONA
27, LCCP PATIENT NAVIGATOR
Lisa Katona has always been interested in the intersection between physical health, mental health and social jus- tice. Educated at the University of Michigan School of Social Work, Katona has training and experience working with a variety of LGBTQ-related issues, including individual and family clinical practice, gender issues, sexual health and domestic violence. Her interest in social justice and women's health began at Oberlin College, where she trained her college and community-based peers in women's health issues. In graduate school, Katona not only worked as a domestic violence counselor, but she also assisted the Intersex Society of North America in researching quality care for individuals receiving medical assistance, and was involved in a clinical preceptorship in sexual health through the University of Michigan Hospital.
Since her arrival to Chicago two years ago, she has been working at the Howard Brown Health Center. Initially, Katona worked as a case manager for individuals living with HIV, and is now the newest addition to the Lesbian Community Care Project (LCCP), as the patient navigator for the Illinois Breast and Cervical Cancer Program. Additionally, she is completing a two-year postgraduate fellowship with Live Oak, providing psychotherapy to individuals and families, as well as trainings to organizations and communities.
DID YOU KNOW? She got stuck in a tree in her own backyard, and the fire department had to be called to get her down.
SIMON STRIKEBACK
29, MUSICIAN AND TRANS ACTIVIST
Simon Daniel Fisher, or Simon Strikeback, grew up first in Rog- ers Park and later in a near northern suburb. He was a queer activ- ist in high school, creating a student support group and working with Better Existence with HIV (BEHIV) as a youth educator. While at DePaul University, he joined Lesbian Avengers, and in 1999, helped revitalize Camp Trans to protest transphobic policies in women-only spaces. Strikeback was a lead organizer with the project until 2005. After living at IDA, a queer rural community for three years, he returned to Chicago and co-created the trans performance duet Actor Slash Model, currently producing a documentary about trans and gender-variant musicians. This fall, Strikeback will begin graduate study in interdisciplinary humanities at the University of Chicago.
Strikeback is currently on tour with Actor Slash Model, gathering interviews for the film and playing shows across the Northeast. At the moment, he is probably trying to fit four people, three cameras, all of their belongings and a seven-foot upright bass into the car.
Other current projects include the zine "Bound to Struggle: Where Kink and Radical Politics Meet," which brings together the words and art of a diverse group of practitioners of both kink and radical politics. He also co-curates Threat Level, Chicago's bimonthly queer short film series that raises money for his and other Chicago-based trans-focused documentaries. He also is a core member of the Chicago Childcare Collective that offers free child-care to social justice organizations in the city.
DID YOU KNOW? His new favorite thing to imagine is how to re-create the 1930's phenomena, The Pansy Craze, a sociopolitical movement with a large base in Chicago. He suspects it will involve people of many different genders, booty dancing and a lot of pink.
HECTOR SALGADO
26, OUTREACH SPECIALIST
Hector Salgado is an outreach specialist for Project VIDA, where he has worked since 2003. There, Salgado created an outreach curriculum to increase the number of group participants and formed several collaborate relationships with various organizations to make sure prevention information and materials are provided at their venues. Salgado has also helped create curriculum and facilitated discussions with Project VIDA's youth group on topics such as gay history, HIV and dating violence. Prior to his work at Project VIDA, Salgado took part in Public Allies Chicago's Ally Apprenticeship Program, where he worked at the Greater Chicago Food Depository as their recruitment and retention specialist in the Community Kitchens Program.
Salgado has also served as president of the Latin American Student Organization and president of the Student Government Association at Richard J. Daley college, a college advisor for SERAS youth leadership group in Little Village and vice president of the District Wide Student Government Assocation. He is a member of the University of Illinois in Chicago's PRIDE program and has worked with the Oak Park Gay and Lesbian Association (OPALGA) to help organize the first Latino MSM retreat.
DID YOU KNOW? Salgado is working on his Bachelor's in political science with a minor in Latino studies at UIC, and has volunteered in various voter registration and youth organizing drives.
TOM KELLY
25, POLITICAL ORGANIZER
Tom Kelly has been a resident of Chicago for six years, after spending his first 18 in Stevensville, Mich. The oldest son of Tom and Sheila Kelly, he at- tended public schools and was very active in the Boy Scouts, earning his Eagle Scout badge. However, it was his interest in politics and public policy that brought him to Chicago, where he attended DePaul University.
While at DePaul University, Kelly was a member of the university's rugby team and DePaul College Democrats, among other activities. During his freshman year, he took Dr. Elizabeth Kelly's course, "Creating Change: LGBT Politics," which introduced him to LGBT policy and sparked his interest in LGBT equality issues. Dr. Kelly also encouraged him to take an internship on U.S. Rep. Rahm Emanuel's 2002 congressional campaign, which began his career in political campaigns.
Shortly after the 2002 congressional race, Kelly took a job with then State Sen. Barack Obama, who had recently announced his candidacy for the U.S. Senate. After working on the 2004 primary and general election staffs, he continued his work with Obama as an assistant to then political director Dan Shomon. This lasted until September 2005, when he began work as campaign manager for Assessor James M. Houlihan's re-election campaign.
During this time, he was accepted to the University of Oxford for a master's in social policy. While at Oxford, he focused on developing his understanding of gender and public health issues, and became active with both the Democrats Abroad UK and the Oxford University Stop AIDS campaign. In 2007, he graduated from Oxford after completing a thesis titled, "Understanding the Continental Divide: How do we explain the different developments between the American and Canadian systems for managing health risks."
In November 2007, Kelly returned to the United States to work on Obama's presidential campaign as a field organizer. Over the past few months, he has organized in Wisconsin, Ohio and Indiana, in addition to drafting a field plan for Equality Illinois and volunteering with the AIDS Foundation of Chicago.
DID YOU KNOW? Kelly will be leaving the Obama campaign shortly, as he has recently been accepted to Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government to pursue a Master's in public administration.
TYJUAN CRATIC
23, POLITICAL ACTIVIST
TyJuan Cratic, 23, born and raised in Chicago, attended John Hope College Prep and De La Salle Institute on the South Side. He started early in his life working for gay issues and a political agenda, lobbying while in high school for SB 101, the Human Rights Amendment in Illinois. This is where he got the first taste of political and legislative work that would benefit people he had never met.
Cratic began his studies at Southern Illinois University in Carbondale, majoring in political science. There, he soon became president of the SIU College Democrats. Appointed to the SIU Student Health Advisory Board, TyJuan, spent three years working to establish domestic-partner benefits for students and university employees. This was achieved in 2005, a great victory for the SIU LGBT community.
Later in 2005, after SIU's Chancellor made condemning comments about homosexuality, he was appointed to represent undergraduate students on the Provost GLBT Ad hoc Committee. As the only undergraduate student on this committee, he found it important to hold the university to the fire to change outdated policies.
Cratic was a part of recommending a change in university policies that blocked same-sex couples as live-in resident hall directors and establishing hate crime reporting after several hate crime situations occurred on campus. One of the recommendations he was truly proud of was paving the way for the SIU GLBT Resource Center.
In 2007, he was elected as the Illinois Federation of Political Affairs' vice president of political affairs, bringing the organization to fight for two political issues in Illinois: civil unions and lowering textbook cost for college students. On April 5, he was elected president. Cratic made civil unions one of the top legislative and political issues of his term, and established a grassroots campaign for four democratic congressional races in Illinois.
DID YOU KNOW? Cratic has taken one year away from SIU before graduation to work at a Chicago law firm.
TONY LEWIS
27, THEATER MASTERMIND
Tony Lewis was born in Louisville, Ky., to Bill and Mary Anne Lewis and has one older sister, Tricia. From messy fingerpaints and notebook doodles to angsty poetry, art has been a driving force for Lewis since his early years. Growing up, his cousins were his cast in yearly holiday productions (sometimes against their will). What started as little pageants grew as Tony did. Quality of scripts, sets and costumes were not lost on these shabby basement productions, and his family was always anticipating their little thespian's passion. His family has always been a huge influence on his life as an artist and gay man. He performed throughout high school, and when the time came for higher education, he wanted to continue to follow this driving passion in his life.
Lewis attended the Theatre Conservatory at Roosevelt University. During those four years of theater and life training, he grew as an artist and man. When graduation came, an idea began to formulate in his mind. He began to work on an adaptation of "A Midsummer Night's Dream." Gender changes, addition of an anti-gay marriage decree and alteration of Shakespeare's fairy-filled forest to a vagrant-filled "Boyshood" provided Tony a voice and message for the gay community. His youthful optimism told him he better get it produced with haste before gay marriage was legalized, so he and fellow Roosevelt alumni formed the theater company MidTangent Productions. For the past three years (currently in rehearsals for the fourth) MidTangent Productions has brought A Midsummer Night's Dream: A Queer Tale to the stage, along with other productions like Fascination, I Am Hamlet and @mosphere 54. With the support of over a hundred artists, designers and supporters, this dream was made a reality.
DID YOU KNOW? In addition to theater, Lewis is also a singer, choreographer, fiction writer and professional event planner.
AMY GREGORY
28, REGISTERED NURSE
Amy Gregory, 28, currently works to care for members of the LGBT community by providing world class medical care as part of the team of Howard Brown Health Center's John S. Baran Center for Medical Services. In this capacity, she provides expert and compassionate care for those living with HIV/AIDS and to all LGBT persons seeking comprehensive medical care at Howard Brown.
She graduated from the Depaul University College of Nursing in 2006, and is a member of Sigma Theta Tau, The National Honor Society of Nursing. Gregory is currently fulfilling requirements for the Family Nurse Practitioner program at DePaul University, and is set to graduate in June 2009. She hopes to continue her work in LGBT health field, especially women's and lesbian's health, STDs and HIV/AIDS.
DID YOU KNOW? Her "root" was when she developed a crush on Dottie Henson in the movie A League of Their Own when she was 12.
SPECIAL FUTURE:
Two local celebrities who have done the Chicago LGBT community proud are also being honored by Windy City Media Group:
RONNIE KROELL
25, MODEL AND 4+1 PRODUCTIONS FOUNDER
Ronnie Kroell, 25, is a political science major at the University of Illinois at Chicago. In addition to his passion for politics, he has a deep love for the arts. He has pursued acting and modeling for many years, and celebrated his most recent success as runner-up on BRAVO's "Make Me a Supermodel."
Kroell is a man with strong convictions, and has never allowed obstacles to stand in his way. Rather, he chooses to focus on the glass being half full and greeting every challenge with a smile. Most importantly, as a man that happens to be gay, he does not allow his "personal orientation" to solely define his life's journey or how he interacts with individuals from all walks of life.
As founder of 4+1 Productions, he is a proponent of "bridging diversity through the arts," and is an advocate for opening lines of communication and inspiring others to just be themselves. Kroell is currently working on finishing his degree, writing a book and living each day to the fullest. He is thankful to his family, friends and to the community for their support of his efforts and hopes that they will continue to watch what happens.
DID YOU KNOW? While he considers himself to be an ordinary guy, he also acknowledges that he has extraordinary dreams and believes that anything is possible (including his dream of being President of the U.S.).
STEPHEN ROSENGARD
30, FASHION DESIGNER
Born and raised in Chicago, 30-year-old Steven Rosengard was hooked on design as early as age 11, when he realized the people he loved to sketch "needed clothes." The greats of Hollywood's Golden Age-Katherine Hepburn, Rita Hayworth, Doris Day and Lauren Bacali-they were the inspiration for Rosengard, and by the age of 14, he was researching fashion history and making his first dresses.
The youngest of four children, Steven spent his free time drawing figures, designing gowns and exploring fabric. His path to fashion led him to the University of Wisconsin-Madison, studying Dutch, but he ended up at Chicago's Columbia College for fashion design. He traveled abroad, where fashion and fabric continued to captivate him in places such as France, England and Italy. Today, he creates effortless, dramatic and elegant day and evening looks, tailored for real women who have to look good while going through their daily lives.
Rosengard's passion and unique curiosity for all things fashionable have made him a rising star in Chicago's design community. His focus, with direct inspiration from Yves St. Laurent, centers on natural fabrics that bring a simple, yet elegant, perspective to women's day wear. He hopes to rid the fashion world of non-natural fabric and take day dresses to a level every woman would covet.
DID YOU KNOW? Rosengard eats ice cream with milk poured all over it (like how you eat cereal). He was also the only Project Runway contestant that understood what Heidi was saying when she would be ranting in Dutch.

Subject: Young adults; Social life & customs; Gays & lesbians; Careers

Business indexing term: Subject: Careers

People: Jessup, Chris; Rude, Jen; Posey, Patricia

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: 30 UNDER THIRTY 2008

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 23

Issue: 41

Pages: 33-34,36,38-39

Number of pages: 5

Publication year: 2008

Publication date: Jun 25, 2008

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 432798812

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/30-under-thirty-2008/docview/432798812/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jun 25, 2008

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch


