_______________

30 UNDER THIRTY HONORS

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/30-under-thirty-honors/docview/432811412/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [JORDAN HEINZ] started in 2005 as the firm's first openly gay attorney. Since then, Jordan has led the development of the Kirkland & Ellis' LGBT community, which is now one of the largest and most active in the Chicago legal market. Aside from his primary practice, Jordan spends his time as the associate pro bono coordinator, a position that allows him to increase the firm's pro bono practice through placing those cases with attorneys.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=39&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=38&amp;date=2009-06-24&amp;atitle=30+UNDER+THIRTY+HONORS&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=24&amp;issue=39&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=38&amp;date=2009-06-24&amp;atitle=30+UNDER+THIRTY+HONORS&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: TENTH ANNUAL
WINDY CITY TIMES
DAVID DODD
David, 27, currently serves as communications manager for Windy City Black Pride (WCBP), a volunteer- based 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization that provides resources, conducts outreach and hosts the largest event in the Midwest for the African-American LGBT community. He is responsible for developing and implementing the organization's local and national advertising, marketing, and public relations strategies. In addition, he assists in the organization's philanthropic initiatives.
Born and raised in the Washington, D. C, metropolitan area, David moved to Chicago at 17, three weeks after graduating from high school to become a fashion designer. He soon learned that sewing was not for him and changed paths to work in another creative world the advertising industry.
David holds a degree in marketing from Chicago State University and will pursue an MBA in the fall at Roosevelt University.
Did you know? David is a champion bowler with a 195 average.
CAMERON ESPOSITO
Cameron, 27, is an up-and-coming stand-up comic based in Chicago. She is a cast member at the Lincoln Lodge and Chicago Underground Comedy; produces her own show at the Town Hall Pub; and has performed as far from home as London, England, and Cape Town, South Africa. She is a regular guest on the podcast Feast of Fun, and teaches stand-up classes for women. Cameron also has her own Web series on AfterEllen.com called "Cameron Esposito: Homo Genius."
Did you know? Cameron will be acting as ringmaster during on a monthlong tour with El Circo Cheapo, a local circus and aerial performance troupe this fall making all of her dreams come true.
RILEY JOHNSON
Riley - an educator, scholar and leatherman - serves as coordinator of the Great Lakes Bootblack contest, a title he himself won in 2007. A history geek at heart, Riley, 30 (but 29 when he was nominated), also serves as a coordinator of the Leather Archives and Museum Roadshow, the traveling team which presents the LA&M's exhibits of leather and fetish history around the world.
Riley is also a co-founder of Trans Gynecology Access Program (TGAP; qphc.org), which provides transmen, butches and genderqueers with the option of having a transman health educator in with them for any part of their exams to help them feel more at ease and to share expertise. As a part of this program, Riley is writing a comprehensive sa fer- sex guide that includes self-defense techniques and tips on disclosure, harm reduction and negotiation.
Did you know? When not working or volunteering, Riley enjoys manhandling, whip-throwing and a wellstocked humidor.
JADE (DAVID) SOTOMAYOR
Jade, 25, is a professional female impersonator who has performed in many clubs throughout Chicago and Detroit - and current is featured at the local restaurant Sangria. Jade has been thrust into the national spotlight thanks to her appearance on the LOGO reality- TV show RuPaul's Drag Race, which premiered in February.
Jade was recently honored as outstanding Aspirante at the 40th anniversary of the ASPIRA Association, which promotes the empowerment of the Puerto Rican and Latino communities by developing and nurturing the potential of its youth. Also, in 2007, she was selected as the first female impersonator to represent the Puerto Rican community under the Paseo Boricua Pageantry system; her mission included visiting different groups and doing outreach/education.
Jade is currently on tour throughout the United States. She is also working on her music and just filmed her debut in the film My Guaranteed Student Loan
Did you know? To be a part of RuPaul's Drag Show, Jade was one of nine contestants whittled down from more than 3,000 applicants.
JACQUT JACKSON
Jacqui, 23, recently finished the B. F. A. Acting program at The Theatre School at De Paul University. After leaving DePaul last June, she worked as an actress in many productions and films shot or produced in the Chicago area. Most notably, she played Greta in the lesbian feature film Hannah Free, which was written by Claudia Allen, directed by Wendy Jo Carlton and starred Sharon G less.
Jacqui started her acting career at age 3, and has performed in more than 50 productions in the last 20 years. In an effort to use art to promote social dialogue, last summer Jacqui participated in "Embrace the Gayness," a play performed guerrilla-style in a popular Chicago park. In its climactic final scene, two women kiss in the park, creating a public affirmation of safety and acceptance for the lesbian community.
Did you know? Jacqui's first crush was on Debbie Harry, the lead singer of Blondie.
CHRIS COHEN
Chris, 22, never guessed - growing up in the Windy City - that one day he would be able to make an impact on the community and become an inspiration to others through his accomplishments. At 18, Chris began pursuing a degree in fashion design that led him to Los Angeles, Calif.
The major turning point in Chris' modeling career is in 2008, when he found himself as a contestant on Bravo's Make Me a Supermodel. He became the next pivotal openly gay contestant after Ronnie Kroell (who was a 30 Under 30 honoree last year). Chris aims to push the boundaries of everything he does in order to make others question: What is identity? What is gender? What is reality? He believes when you stop accepting the norm and start questioning your very being, only then can you see things in a different light and discover more about who you really are.
Did you know? For inspiration, Chris refers to a quote by Anthony Robbins: "We can change our lives. We can do, have and be exactly what we wish."
SHREYA SHAH
Shreya, 26, is an organizer and artist currently based at the Broadway Youth Center (BYC), where she has spent the last three years. She works as a sexual health educator, co- facilitato r of the peer advocate program and youth worker (who gets to hang out on the regular with amazing young folks in BYC's drop-in space). She looks forward to graduating from the Institute of HIV Prevention Leadership, becoming a certified SisterSong doula and starting a masters in sexual health within the next year.
Shreya's dream is to spend her days organizing with queer communities of color through storytelling. She hopes to use sound and film to address things like sexual health, healing, queerness and collective struggles against all forms of violence. Shreya is currently working on two sound projects: Q & (s)A (an oral-history project about queer and South Asian folks) and Everyday Healers.
Did you know? In the last few years, Shreya has taken classes in both singing and clowning, although her sister still cringes whenever she attempts either.
AMY STAUFFER
Amy, 27, a native Chicagoan, has been working on HIV prevention research projects since 2004. A "jill-of-alltrades," she has worked on over 10 different HIV prevention projects in various capacities from facilitating prevention groups to testing the effectiveness of comprehensive sexual health curriculum. Additionally, Amy has been an active member of the HIV Prevention Planning Group of Chicago since 2006.
Did you know? Amy has recently started taking trapeze lessons and enjoys swinging around upside down.
KATIE O'MALLEY
Katie, 26, is a product of the Midwest - living in Illinois, Missouri, Ohio and Minnesota before moving to New York City at the age of 22. As a 2004 graduate from Miami University of Ohio, Katie began her multifaceted career as a field director for The Young Voter Project in Minnesota - and spearheaded the program in central Minnesota, changing the color of 19 precincts from red to blue and helping Minnesota send its electoral Votes to John Kerry in 2004.
In 2007, Katie moved back to Chicago after accepting her current position as a development associate with the AIDS Foundation of Chicago (AFC). Throughout the year, Katie works on multiple fundraising events to support the AFC's grantmaking initiatives in the community - specifically, AIDS Run & Walk Chicago, World of Chocolate, Make a Statement: Design for the Cure and Dance for Life. In her past two years at AFC, Katie is most proud of her work with the CommunityDirect program of AIDS Run & Walk Chicago that allows HIV/ AIDS service providers to form teams and receive back 100% of the money that they raise for the event.
Did you know? Katie has attended one Dave Matthews Band concert every year since 1998.
GABRIEL ERVIN
Gabriel, 26, is a self-described "hot mess in the struggle" while working as a resource advocate in the drop-in program (a program for LGBTQ youth, street-based youth and young people experiencing homelessness) at the Broadway Youth Center. Gabriel identifies as trans, and as such, "their gender is somewhere between glittery red and purple - and sometimes has pink dots." Gabriel is driven by a fierce passion for harm reduction, transformative justice, young people, voguing and celebration. In the past, Gabriel was organizer for Camp Trans, an annual gathering of transgender people and their allies in Michigan.
Did you know? Gabriel can remember the lyrics to the intra of almost every sitcom and cartoon from the '80s.
JORDAN HEINZ
Jordan, 29, graduated from Northwestern University in 2002 and from the University of Pennsylvania Law School in 2005. Jordan now practices at Kirkland & Ellis LLP in the intellectual property department, focusing on trademark and false advertising litigation.
Jordan started in 2005 as the firm's first openly gay attorney. Since then, Jordan has led the development of the Kirkland & Ellis' LGBT community, which is now one of the largest and most active in the Chicago legal market. Aside from his primary practice, Jordan spends his time as the associate pro bono coordinator, a position that allows him to increase the firm's pro bono practice through placing those cases with attorneys. In his own pro bono work, Jordan focuses on matters related to LGBT rights.
Jordan also serves on the board of directors of the AIDS Legal Council of Chicago and on the Junior Board of Chicago Volunteer Legal Services.
Did you know? Despite having webbed feet, Jordan is an absolutely terrible swimmer.
KELLY COOK-GINN
Since moving to Chicago severalyears ago, Kelly, 29, has focused on bringing attention to the rights of individuals of all identities who receive social services. After receiving her masters degree in London with a concentration in youth rights, she joined AmeriCorps and was placed at Horizons, where she facilitated the youth leadership program. In addition, Kelly worked at Teen Living Programs, where she established a youth council.
Currently at Howard Brown Health Center, Kelly has directed her attention to individuals living with HIV, and continues to initiate programs that encourage individuals to actively engage with the services they receive. Kelly feels grateful for the teachers and colleagues she has had along her journey.
Did you know? Kelly has been an avid potter for over 10 years.
STEPHANIE GENTRYFERNANDEZ
Stephanie, 27, is a mixed Mexicana gende rqueer poet and performer from Chicago's South side. She is thrilled to work at Broadway Youth Center as a resource advocate and co -facilitator of the peer advocate program, a program serving to link violence prevention to HIV prevention. Stephanie is an artistic associate of Teatro Luna, and you may recognize her from "Machos" and "S-e-x-ohl" Stephanie is also a proud member of the Left Turn Collective, a grassroots publication of notes from the global intifada.
Did you know? If Stephanie had a superpower, it would be the ability to spontaneously burst into choreographed musical triangle dances with everyone around her.
EDWIN ERVIN
Edwin, 28, have been working in the field of HIV education/prevention since November 2002. In 2005, he was on CAN-TV monthly, presenting ways people could protect themselves from contracting HIV. Currently, Edwin is the Brothas Saving Brothas Coordinator at BEHIV (Better Existence with HIV).
Edwin is also a member of the Northside HIV Health Coalition. He has a passion for helping people in the LGBTQA community; being a Black gay man and seeing recent numbers, Edwin feels its part of his duty to help reduce those numbers.
Did you know? On Saturday mornings, Edwin still gets up with a bowl of cereal and watches cartoons, leading his partner to think that he is a 9 year-old trapped in a man's body.
SEAN CASEY
Sean, 27, serves as the coordinator of the Global Equality Network at Heartland Alliance for Human Needs & Human Rights, supporting the development of grassroots LGBT civil society organizations in countries that are particularly dangerous or oppressive for LGBT populations. Sean is currently working with LGBT activists and organizations in such places as Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Nigeria, Sri Lanka, Burundi and Lebanon.
Originally from King of Prussia, Pa., Sean studied international journalism at the American University of Paris and received a master's in HIV/AIDS and Society from the University of Cape Town in South Africa. In addition to France and South Africa, Sean has lived and worked in Rwanda and Haiti.
Did you know? Sean is a fluent French speaker, muddles through Haiti Creole and is constantly trying to improve his Spanish.
SHAE HEALEY
I Shae, 22, moved to Chicago from Portland, Ore., last year. Since coming out at 19, Shae has made LGBTQ activism a priority on both academic and professional levels.
Growing up in suburbia, attending college in rural America and living in Chicago, Shae has experienced varying perspectives and experiences surrounding homophobia and acceptance. Her undergraduate thesis focused on the atmosphere surrounding LGBTQ youth in Walla Walla, Wash., and inspired several front-page stories and community conversations concerning her involvement in pioneering the small town's first LGBTQ youth program. While studying abroad in Botswana - a country where same-sex conduct is illegal - Shae worked closely with LeGaBiBo, the nation's only LGBTQ organization. Shae currently works for the Center on Halsted Youth Program as a career employment specialist.
Did you know? Shae is sensitive to caffeine, interested in women's studies and humbled by this award.
KRISTIN KEGLOVITZ BAKER
Kristin, 28, has been working at Howard Brown as a physician's assistant for the past four years, and am committed to working for and with the LGBT community. Kristin is also involved in Camp Dreamcatcher - a camp in Pennsylvania for children affected/infected with HIV/AIDS- and is a mentor for Mercy Home through the Evans Scholar Foundation.
To Kristin, her dedication to medicine and providing quality healthcare to the Chicago LGBT community is one of the most important parts of her life. She started out as a medical assistant in the small town of Vi sa lia, Calif., and couldn't be happier to be in Chicago. She would like to eventually see a decline in HIV/AIDS infection; more of our community accessing quality healthcare; and LGBT folks raising healthy, happy, well-adjusted children.
Did you know? In the past year, Kristin has broken her leg once and her nose twice. Also, Kristin and her wife, Bridget Baker, are expecting twins any day now.
KEVIN FERENCHAK
Kevin is a 21-year-old undergrad at Loyola University Chicago. Recognizing that the campus is undergoing major growth, he spends part of his time ensuring that LGBTQ equality and concerns are part of the emerging culture of the Catholic university. He has served on the planning committees for Loyola's GLBTQ Week, Hate Crime Awareness Month and the university's Day of Silence.
Off-campus, Kevin has been trained as an HIV/STD test counselor at the Howard Brown Broadway Youth Center. He also cofounded a free ACT prep course for an inner city high school. Most recently, he is a published author for his genetics and virology research at The SaIk Institute in La JoLLa, California.
In 2008 he was awarded the Point Foundation Scholarship. Looking forward, Kevin hopes to attend medical school and one day become a father.
Did you know? Kevin once potty-trained a two-year-old in two days because he was sick of dirty diapers.
MARK PINEDA
Mark, 24, is a disease intervention specialist for Howard Brown Health Center. As a specialist, Mark has worked proudly to help educate, motivate and help all in the LGBTQI community who may be affected by STD/HIV in an effort to eradicate disease in our communities being that we are most disproportionately disadvantaged and affected.
Mark came to Howard Brown in 2007 with hopes of providing health care to those most in need, helping our community help itself and create awareness around the importance of great healthcare made accessible to everyone. Mark is so proud to be a part of the Latin@ Committee for Howard Brown, co- fa ci lita ti ? g the first-ever Latino Support Group, Empoderando Comunidades/ Empowering Communities. Mark is presently pursuing his degree in sociology with a focus on psychology and LGBTQI health. He has learned the value of hard work, the importance of standing up for what you believe and the passion for social advocacy and welfare - because of great role models and heroes.
Did you know? Mark loves Latin music and will go out dancing with his friends - and will even sing a little karaoke from time to time, if they let him.
CLAY REHRIG
Clay, 24, is a rising third-year student at Loyola University Chicago School of Law where he is a 2009/2010 ABA Moot Court Team oralist, and is pursuing a certificate in international law. As the 2008/2009 co-president of OUTLAW, Loyola's LGBT organization, Clay has been an integral part of leading this group of students and allies in advocating for the recognition and support of LGBT students within the legal community. Last summer, Clay worked with Equality Illinois compiling, comparing and summarizing all state statutes discussing marriage in order to assist El's mission to secure equal marriage rights for same-sex couples. This summer, Clay is working for Ed Fox 8i Associates, where he helps research and draft legal memos and motions and while pursuing civil-rights lawsuits.
Did you know? Originally from Texas, Clay enjoys cooking, swimming and speaking German. Recently, he won third place in Loyola's annual "No Talent Show" for his performance of the Backstreet Boys' "I Want It That Way."
KRISTEN KAZA
Since moving to Chicago from Vermont in 2003, Kristen, 24, has worked in events planning and publicity for several Chicago publications, companies and causes, most recently with Chicago film company Yellow Wing Productions. In 2007, Kaza joined the team to spearhead publicity, which developed into a co-producer role for the feature film Fish out of Water, a documentary that explores the impassioned relationship between homosexuality and the Bible.
Kristen focuses on the fundraising and outreach aspects of production by developing partnerships with various community and organizations, coordinating fundraising events, working with both the local and national media, and developing grant proposals. (She also contracted Golden Globe-nominated queer musician Kaki King to score the movie.) The film will officially premiere at Outfest 2009 in Los Angeles July 18.
Did you know? Kristen is a seventh-generation Vermonter who puts maple syrup on everything, even her morning grapefruit.
JEREMY CARTER
Jeremy, 25 - who works as the prevention coordinator for the Center on Halsted's Youth Program - is a native of St. Louis, Mo. He is currently a student at Northeastern Illinois University, where he is pursuing his BSW (Bachelor's in Social Work), after which he will begin his strive to receive his masters in the same field. Jeremy plans to eventually become involved in policy writing and implementation.
Jeremy is also involved with two committees (Connect2Protect and The
National Youth Advocacy Coalition's "You Know Different" Campaign"). Since 2006, Jeremy has given presentations on sexually transmitted infections to high schools, agencies and colleges, reaching nearly 900 young people. Jeremy plans to continue in the field of social services as he enjoys helping others to realize and achieve their full potential.
Did you know? Sherri Sheppard from ABC's The View recently told Jeremy that he was an inspiration.
DARIUS MAYFIELD
Darius, 25, has been ac- tive in STD prevention in the com- munity ever since he was 14 years old. Ninth-grade sexual-edu- cation class inspired him to help educate about preventing the spread of STDs, HIV, and AIDS in the community. At the age of 21, Darius joined a group in Los Angeles called Positively Speaking; with this group he traveled to different schools facilitating about HIV/AIDS.
Two years later he moved to Chicago, where he started volunteering at different community events like Love Fest. Volunteering led him to becoming an outreach specialist at Taskforce Prevention and Community Services, and he went on to become a prevention counselor and a certified HIV tester. Soon after, he was hired by the Public Health Institute in June 2008 as the project manager of the Chicago Black Gay Men's Caucus. Darius is still with the caucus, and plans to continue to do what he can to make a difference in the community.
Did you know? Although Darius is a pretty small guy, he is known for eating like a man with two stomachs - so his friends call him "Fatty."
DENISE NUNES
Denise, 26, 13 from Evanston, Ill. She graduated from Williams College in 2005 and worked "like 9,000 jobs" until she found herself employed at the Broadway Youth Center. She considers working there one of the best things that has ever happened to her - second only to the time she spent promoting community health and sanitation in the Dominican Republic, and Nicaragua with Amigos de las Americas.
Adolescent health is Denise's passion. She has been working with the Broadway Youth Center since December 2007. She hits up local high schools and community groups, providing them with a real and honest approach to sexual health. Denise is currently preparing herself to apply to masters nursing programs, and is suffering through the summer session of anatomy and physiology.
Still, she thinks it is all worth it. Denise feels the community has a need for culturally competent medical providers - and she can't wait to write her first prescription.
Did you know? Denise does not like breakfast foods.
LAWRENCE PEREA
Lawrence, 29, moved to Chicago seven years ago from the Southwest, and since then has developed a passion for LGBT advocacy. From performing with the Chicago Gay Men's Chorus to serving as council member on the City of Chicago's Commission on Human Relations, Lawrence has seen the glory and the struggle of the LGBT-rights movement in Chicago.
He served as a leading committee member on the marketing and development teams for the 2006 Gay Games, and has volunteered for community groups such as Equality Illinois and TPAN (Test Positive Aware Network), among others. Lawrence holds a particular concern for youth and transgender issues, and most recently has become co-founder of LGBTChange.org, a grassroots LGBT outreach group. He gives his thanks to his family and dear friends for all their love and support as he continues to fight for the LGBT community in understanding and resolving the struggles and inequalities for LGBT persons.
Did you know? Among other things, Lawrence hates onions; plays the alto saxophone; loves to do yoga and Pilates; and was a drum major in high school.
JOHN LITCHFIELD
John, 27 - who is a Chicago-area native - recently graduated from Loyola University Chicago School of Law, where he founded the law school's LGBT student organization, OUTLAW. He currently serves as a board member of the Lesbian and Gay Bar Association of Chicago, and was integral in developing its lawyer-student mentorship program. While at Loyola, John helped bring LGBT issues to the forefront of the school's concept of diversity by increasing LGBT visibility and activity.
Since OUTLAWs founding in 2007, its membership has grown from fewer than 10 concerned students to over 40 gay, lesbian and allied students, faculty and staff members. OUTLAW has hosted forums on same-sex marriage, HIV/AIDS and related topics.
In 2008, John served on Obama for America's LGBT task force, and was a member of the campaign's legal team observing polling places in South Bend, Ind., on Election Day.
I Did you know? John is an avid scotch whiskey consumer, and maintains his membership with the Edinburgh Scotch Whiskey Appreciation Society.
MARCO HIDALGO
Marco, 29, moved to Chicago in 2004 and is currently a Ph.D. candidate in clinical-community psychology at DePaul University. Marco has worked in the field of HIV prevention since 1998, in the United States and in Kenya. Currently, he works at Howard Brown Health Center, where he directs an HIV prevention research project for GBQ young men called My-Peeps.org.
In 2005, Marco began addressing an epidemic whose presence within LGBTQ communities is relatively ignored: intimate partner violence. As a volunteer psychotherapist with Howard Brown's Violence Recovery Project, Marco developed a psycho-educational support group for people who have experienced samegender IPV. Marco's dissertation research will result in the creation of a same-gender IPV assessment tool intended for use among health- and service-providers.
Did you know? A California native, Marco tries not to "HS" too much on his home state. However, he dreams the Land of Lincoln will beat a certain "Golden State" to the altar.
JOHN RICHARDS
John, 27, is an attorney who practices in the Labor & Employment group of Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP with a particular emphasis on class action and multiparty litigation arising under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act.
With respect to the LGBT community, John represents pro bono LGBT clients seeking asylum on behalf of the National Immigration Justice Center. He is the chair of the Chicago Bar Association's Committee on LGBT Rights; a board memberof the Lesbian and Gay Bar Association of Chicago; has served on the Illinois Bar Association Committee on Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity and Committee on Diversity; and has been on the Howard Brown Leadership Council. John is actively involved in Lambda Legal, and have spoken as a panelist and published numerous articles on a variety LGBT issues.
Prior to moving to Chicago, John worked with Equality Advocates Pennsylvania, where he represented clients involving name changes for transgender individuals, custody modifications and employment discrimination involving LGBT individuals. Recently, John was recognized as a "rising star" in the 2009 edition of Illinois Super Lawyers. John is a summa cum laude graduate of Vanderbilt University and a cum laude graduate of the University of Pennsylvania Law School.
Did you know? John has never had a cup of coffee or a candy bar.
RYAN KAMINSKI
- Ryan Kaminski: Ryan, 23, was born in Palos Heights, Ill., and grew up in the nearby suburb of Orland Park. At the age of 10, Ryan's parents knew he was interested in politics when they obsessively collected all the country flags from Walt Disney World's Epcot World Showcase attraction. Attending the University of Chicago, he concentrated in international studies and political science while promoting LGBTQ interests on the UChicago College Council.
Interning at Amnesty International's Chicago office, Ryan worked on a campaign to raise awareness about Chicago Police-LGBTQ relations and increasing accountability within the Chicago Police Department. During this time, Ryan also volunteered for the United Nations Association's Global Classrooms program by co-facilitating Model UN conferences in Chicago, Los Angeles and New York for underserved youth. Following his graduation in June 2008, Ryan traveled to Hong Kong as a Fulbright English Teaching Assistant. In April 2009, Ryan received the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Graduate Fellowship, which he plans to use to study international security at Columbia University.
Did you know? Ryan is a vegan and a running enthusiast.
MATTHEW LEW
Matthew, 29, is a nationally recognized artist who has turned his art into advocacy for LGBT organizations. Matthew's work can be found in national retailer CB2 (by Crate & Barrel), and has been featured on Extreme Makeover: Home Edition, HGTVs Divine Design with Candice Olson and CBS' The Early Show.
Matthew has donated more than $100,000 worth of original artwork, and has painted live at LGBT events to raise funds for organizations including the Human Rights Campaign, Test Positive Aware Network, Chicago House, Center on Halsted and Equality Illinois. He soon took his passion for equality and talents outside of Chicago by traveling to fundraisers across the country, such as Telluride Aids Benefit, GLAAD and the HRC in New York, Boston and Denver.
Matthew's mixed-media work fuses paint and photography, creating a diverse range of pieces for everyone from the first-time buyer to the seasoned collector. He recently earned recognition as one of the The Advocate magazine's "Forty Under Forty" and "Best Emerging Artist 2009" by the Chicago Reader.
Did you know? Matthew lived in Spain for three years, and hiked 500 miles along the Camino de Santiago in Spain with his mother.
30 UNDER THIRTY SPECIAL TEEN AWARDS
MATT SCHLAGEL
Matt, 18, was born in Chicago and attended Bateman Ele- mentary school, Thurgood Mar- shall Middle School and Lake View High School. After coming out to his parents, Matt pushed to form the Lake View Gay-Straight Alliance during his sophomore year, creating a safe environment for other LGBT students in Lake View. Three years ago, Matt attended his first Illinois Safe Schools Alliance meeting; since then, he has learned to reform ideas and organize them, which he puts forth to educate surrounding youth in the Chicagoland area. Matt plans to go to Northeastern Illinois University to further his education in psychology and social work, and to further help LGBT youths.
Did you know? While horseplaying with his friend Jordan, her chair accidentally went through a wall - but Matt stayed with her so that they both faced the music from her father.
TEA SEFER
Tea has lived in the United States for 10 years and just turned 17. She's been working with About Face Theatre since the beginning of 2008 and performed in their main stage production of Fast Forward during the summer of 2008. Tea has also been working with the Illinois Safe School's Alliance for the past school year. This fall, she will be starting her senior year at Lincoln Park High School and aspires to continue her social justice activism for the rest of her life.
Did you know? Tea loves to play and listen to music and has attempted to learn the piano, drums, guitar, and violin.
SCOTT JABUREK
Scott, 16, grew up on the South Side of Chicago in the Beverly neighborhood, where he started his political activism by vol- unteering for Barack Obama's 2004 Senate campaign at the age of 13. When he entered high school at Walter Payton College Prep, Scott became an active member of his school's queer- straight alliance. Under his un- official presidency the Alliance has hosted two now-annual coming out days, as well as organizing 20% of his school to participate in the 2009 Day of Silence.
During his sophomore year in high school, Scott found About Face Theater - and his calling. As a member of the youth theater, Scott has appeared in Fast Forward and Stupid Kids, and participated in a special 10-year anniversary reading of The Laramie Project. Scott is also a member of the youth committee for the Illinois Safe Schools Alliance, and recently worked with Equality Illinois in attempting to pass the Illinois Civil Union and Religious Freedom Act.
Did you know? Scott played a magical forest nymph in a school production of the Frog Prince.
XAVIER RAMIREZ
Xavier, 17, is about to enter his senior year at Prasser Career Academy in the International Baccalaureate program. He has been in about 15 clubs at his school. Xavier has been with the Illinois Safe School Alliance for two years and plans to help out even after he is in college (even holding his own in a meeting between the alliance and Chicago Public Schools attorneys), and credits Alliance President David Fisher for bringing out his inner activist. Xavier was one of the student contributors for The Mash, a student-led newspaper put out by The Chicago Tribune. He hopes that one day his writing and activism for equal rights will help change the world.
Did you know? Xavier can play three instruments, loves to play Volleyball and considers himself to be a pretty decent writer.
JOSE "CHE-CHE" TURRUBIARTEZ
Jose, a 16-year-old Latino who is openly gay, currently attends Lincoln Park High School. He is a dancer, as well as an actor with About Face Youth Theater. He grew up in Wicker Park, and still lives there. Ever since he can remember, his mother would take him to rallies to protest and march, so that illegal immigrants could obtain their citizenship. Since then, he has been an activist for illegal immigrants.
As Jose turned older, he realized he was gay and that the LGBTQ community goes through so much discrimination and hate. He decided to also be an activist for LGBTQ rights and to get involve as much as I possibly can. Jose works with the Illinois Safe Schools Alliance, Gender JUST and Unidad Calor.
Did you know? Jose - who's currently in the Joffrey Ballet's intensive summer program-loves crab rangoon, sings in Spanish and does not drink soda.
30 UNDER THIRTY JOINT HONORARY AWARD
The three individuals who organized the massive anti-Proposition 8 rally and march that took place last Novemberare receiving a joint honorary award. They are:
MISSY LORENZEN
Missy, 23, is a web designer/slacker-turned-activist by the unhappy outcome of Prop 8 on Nov. 4. Originally from Kansas City, Kansas, she knows all too well the issues facing the LGBTQ community outside of the liberal bubble of Chicago. She currently serves as the media director for Join the Impact Chicago, as well as wo-manning the Web site.
Did you know? Missy can fall asleep anywhere, anytime. Also, she can make her ears fart - a talent which, until recently, she had no idea others could hear.
NIK MACIEJEWSKI
Nik, 22, is a native of Chicagoland. In 2004, he moved to the city and spent four years trying to figure out what he wanted to make of himself. After the passing of Proposition 8 in California, he caught the activism bug and has been helping run the local grassroots LGBTQ group Join the Impact Chicago.
Did you know? Aside from his activism, he will be working to get a bachelors degree in American Sign Language from Columbia College Chicago so he can finally pay his bills.
CORINNE MINA
Corrine, 23, a Columbia College graduate, became an activist on Nov. 4, 2008. Since then, she has been organizing protests and fighting for equal-marriage rights with her friends, Nik and Missy, who co-founded Join the Impact Chicago.
Did you know? Corinne is a freelance classical-music composer and air-guitar rock star.

Subject: Awards & honors; Managers; Teachers; Comedians

People: Dodd, David; Johnson, Riley; Esposito, Cameron

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: 30 UNDER THIRTY HONORS

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 24

Issue: 39

Pages: 38,40-45

Number of pages: 7

Publication year: 2009

Publication date: Jun 24, 2009

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

Document feature: Photographs

ProQuest document ID: 432811412

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/30-under-thirty-honors/docview/432811412/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jun 24, 2009

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch


