_______________

WINDY TIMES CITY 12th Annual THIRTY under 30

Author: Anonymous

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/windy-times-city-12th-annual-thirty-under-30/docview/874929203/se-2?accountid=14696

Abstract: [JUAN CALDERON], 25, was born and raised in Humboldt Park, the center of Chicagoâeuro(TM)sÂ Puerto Rican community. Juanâeuro(TM)s experiences with Chicagoâeuro(TM)s Puerto RicanÂ Cultural Center, which date back to his enrollment in the Centerâeuro(TM)s Consuelo LeeÂ Corretjer Daycare, shaped his views regarding the importance of the communityÂ building, self-determination and LGBTQ health advocacy.

Links: https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=38&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=50&amp;date=2011-06-22&amp;atitle=WINDY+TIMES+CITY+12th+Annual+THIRTY+under+30&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

https://usmai-umcp.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/openurl/01USMAI_UMCP/01USMAI_UMCP:UMCP?sid=ProQ:&amp;issn=1049698X&amp;volume=26&amp;issue=38&amp;title=Windy+City+Times&amp;spage=50&amp;date=2011-06-22&amp;atitle=WINDY+TIMES+CITY+12th+Annual+THIRTY+under+30&amp;au=Anonymous&amp;id=doi:

Full text: JAMES MASON
27
James, 27, began his work volunteering as a peer advocate for the Broadway youth center. Soon he was offered a position as a young menâeuro(TM)s health specialist providing HIV testing and counseling to underserved youth as well as working as the lead facilitator of a program for young Black MSM called Eban. James has also contributed to other projects, including Fab and Condom Sense; in Condom Sense, he teaches local high school students how to protect themselves from HIV and other STDs.
Did you know? One of James favorite TV shows is Aqua Teen Hunger Force, and he loves fries.
LAUREN PETERS
26
Lauren, 26, has been active in politics since she was in high school. Graduating with a B.A. in political science from Michiganâeuro(TM)s Hope College, Lauren served as the president of the schoolâeuro(TM)s unrecognized Gay-Straight Forum. Lauren became more focused on gaining equality by working to train and elect more LGBT candidates to public office at all levels of government through her work at the Gay & Lesbian Victory Fund, where she served as the political manager. She then decided to focus on the Chicago area where she successfully managed the campaign for newly elected Ald. James Cappleman, the second openly gay alderman in the city. Lauren plans on continuing her work to elect more gay-friendly public officials in Illinois.
Did you know? Almost all of Laurenâeuro(TM)s family lives in southern Illinois.
PHIL REESE
28
Phil, 28, just completed his Master of Library and information Sciences program at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Heâeuro(TM)s now just begun his job as the manager of digital initiatives at the oldest LGBT newspaper in the United States, the Washington Blade, leaving behind his beloved adopted home state of Illinois. Philâeuro(TM)s been an LGBT activist and media figure for more than a decade, beginning during his undergraduate years in Michigan. He is one of the co-founders of the UP Center of Champaign County, the LGBT community center there, and is a founding board member of the Civil Rights Agenda.
Did you know? Phil has been swimming since infancy (no joke) and could spend every day at the beach if he could just find a waterproof laptop.
MATTY ROSADO
24
Matty, 24, is a resilient young transgender woman of color who has survived much discrimination and hardship. Born and raised in Humboldt Park, Mattyâeuro(TM)s service to the LGBTQ community began in the Paseo Boricua, where she did extensive volunteer work and gained a position as a health educator at Vida/SIDA. In 2008 Matty was crowned Queen of the Paseo Boricua Pageant, where she continued to work pro-actively to demand respect for Latina/o trans communities. Matty currently works at the Broadway Youth Center as lead facilitator for both the TWISTA and TYRA programs; serves as a mentor for other LGBTQ youth; designs and implements trans youth programming; and conducts training sessions to increase the cultural competency of trans and gender-related issues among providers.
Did you know? Matty can open beer bottles with her teeth.
REYNA WENCES
19
Reyna, 19, is a queer Chicago youth organizer, pro-immigrant rights activist and undocumented immigrant. Sheâeuro(TM)s a studentÂ atÂ the University of Illinois at Chicago majoring in gender and womenâeuro(TM)s studies and an active member of the Immigrant Youth Justice League (IYJL), a Chicago-based grassroots organization led for and by undocumented youth and with support of allies. She has worked on campaigns to stop the deportation of students and organized civil disobethence to pressure Congress to pass the DREAM Act. At the recent Netroots conference in Minneapolis, Reyna was named one of the recipients of the Freedom from Fear Awards, which honors courageous individuals.
Did you know? Reyna was terrified of aliens until she met Doctor Who.
JANE HERETH
26
Jane, 26, is the coordinator of support services at the Chicago Womenâeuro(TM)s AIDS Project. Prior to working with women living with HIV, Jane worked with the YWCA of Metropolitan Chicagoâeuro(TM)s Sexual Violence Support Services, where she facilitated trainings and supervised volunteers on the Rape Crisis Hotline. Jane volunteers with the Night Ministryâeuro(TM)s youth outreach team, which serves many LGBTQ youth experiencing homelessness. She is also part of the Chicago Prison Industrial Complex Teaching Collective. Jane received a M.S.W. from the Jane Addams College of Social Work at the University of Illinois at Chicago in 2009 and a B.A. in sociology from Grinnell College in 2006.
Did you know? A classically trained violinist, Jane recently picked up the mandolin and dreams of playing in a bluegrass band.
DILLIN DEE
17
Dillin, 17, has been a member of the About Face Youth Theatre Ensemble and the Illinois Safe Schools Alliance for two years. As a member of About Face, he was an understudy in Queertopia, a play that focused on oppression within the LGTBQ community. At the Illinois Safe Schools Allianceâeuro?a non-for-profit focused on creating student leaders, educating people on sexual orientation and gender identity issues and advocating policy change to be more inclusive of the LGBTQ communityâeuro?Dillin has been the fundraising subcommittee chair. He was also chosen to represent the alliance in the 2010 National Gathering of GSA Networks and at the Federal LGBT Youth Summit.
Did you know? Dillin hopes to one day move to Japan, and is hoping to become a veterinarian in the near future.
TEDDY GREENE
29
Teddy, 29, has lived in Chicago for eight years. He is a hairstylist at Salon V, where he works hard to always inspire, create and change. This isnâeuro(TM)t the only way he achieves a piece of mind. Teddy Greene was diagnosed with HIV three and a half years ago. Since then he has involved himself in the HIV/AIDS community by training, running, biking for Test Positive Aware Network and now working with the Team to End AIDS Endurance Program. His passion to do something with the world of disease is shown through his fundraising efforts and attempts to spread awareness.
Did you know? He still sleeps with his childhood teddy bearâeuro?and, no, his name is not Teddy.
EDWIN CORBIN-GUTIERREZ
28
Edwin, 28, is the Anti-Violence Project manager at Center on Halsted. Before joining the Center, Edwin coordinated Strength in Unity, a health advocacy coalition led by The Association of Latino Men for Action (ALMA), and worked as a graduate research assistant in medical anthropology at Northwestern. Edwin was a 2005 Fulbright Fellow in Caracas, Venezuela, received his M.A. in performance studies from Northwestern and his B.A. from Emerson College.
Did you know? Edwin is training for his first triathlon and his second marathon to fight AIDS. People can sponsor him at http://afc.aidschicago.org/netcommunity/eecg or, better yet, join the team.
KOKUMO KINETIC
22
KOKUMO, 22, is an intersex/trans woman of color. KOKUMO uses film, theatre, music and poetry as her chosen mediums. She has a production companyÂ that amalgamates all of the aformentioned into âeurooeblack queer artivism.âeuro? Currently touring her one-transwoman show, The Faggot Who Could Fly, she uses her life of sexual and mental abuse as a catalyst for personal and communal change. The Faggot Who Could Fly is KOKUMOâeuro(TM)s story of realizing her gender identity in relation to domestic violence and societal oppression. The Faggot Who Could Fly is a memoir and a start from this promising artist.
Did you know? KOKUMO is working on creating a television network for gender-spectrum people of color.
JOEY GRANT
27
Joey, 27, is a Chicago native and the founder of Mint Male Magazine andÂ MintMale.com. Mintâeuro(TM)s purpose was to highlight the passionate and professional men in the gay community. After two years Mint is evolving intoÂ a multimedia site that will feature queer artists, videos, original web programming and a daily blog for Mint Male fans. Joey has coordinated dozens of events for several charities, such as GetEQUAL, HRC, Howard Brown and Toys for Tots. In addition Joey has worked on events featuring the arts, live theatre and fashionâeuro?all while holding down a full-time job as a hairstylist in Lake View at Lâeuro(TM)etoile Salon.
Did you know? Joey was on the Bozo show and made it to the grand prize game.
LINDSEY DIETZLER
28
Dietzler, 28, is a queer/trans activist and co-founder of Video Action League, which aims to transform, inspire and educate through the use of new media. His organizing began with local punk rock shows and evolved into acts of civil disobethence, flash mobs, rallies and conferences. Dietzler is a graduate of Columbia College Chicago, receiving his B.A. in cultural studies and minor in women and gender studies. Since then, he has worked with Equality Across America, GetEQUAL, Join the Impact Chicago, LGBT Change, The Civil Rights Agenda and The Yes Men in addition to the Video Action League.
Did you know? Dietzler is an avid cyclist and his bicycle is named Harvey Milk.
SUKARI STONE
15
Sukari, 15, a lifelong Hyde Parker, just completed her freshman year with honors at Whitney M. Young High School. In February 2010 she joined the About Face Youth Theater (AFYT), a fabulous LGBTQA activist theatre group, and discovered her passion for the LGBTQA cause. Shortly after joining About Face, Sukari became a fierce advocate with the Illinois Safe School Alliance, an organization promoting safety and support for LGBTQ youth throughout Illinois. While working with the alliance, she has helped organize and facilitate several youth events, including summits and celebrations. This past year, she was one of the two student representatives on Gov. Pat Quinnâeuro(TM)s statewide Prevent School Violence Task Force. Sukari plans to continue to advocate for queer rights and equality outside and within the LGBT community.
Did you know? Sukariâeuro(TM)s favorite foods are grapefruit and potatoesâeuro?although not necessarily together.
NATHAN POLUM
26
Nathan, 26, graduated from the Chicago-Kent College of Law in 2009 and has since been working as an attorney at the Deratany Firm. Nathan has worked on numerous cases of significant importance to the LGBT community, including the case of a New York mother and her gay son, Michael, who received death threats from his classmates. Since starting work at the Deratany Firm, Nathan has represented numerous clients who have been harassed and discriminated against because of their sexuality and HIV status. Nathan is also a member of the Lesbian and Gay Bar Association of Chicago.
Did you know? Nathan enjoys spending time with his cocker spaniel, Stella.
MAX BEVER
25
Max, 25, is the director of community outreach for openly gay Ald. Tom Tunney in Lakeview. As a representative for the Boystown neighborhood, he facilitates several events and projects for the Chicago LGBT community, including the annual Pride Parade, Market Days and the upcoming outdoor Halsted walking museum the Legacy Walk. A former press aide and LGBT liaison for the governorâeuro(TM)s office, Max is also a member of Loyola University Chicagoâeuro(TM)s LGBT Alumni Board and, while at school, helped to establish the annual Hate Crime Awareness Week.
Did you know? Max is involved in local theatre both as a published playwright and as a member of the gay-themed theatre company MidTangent Productions.
SIMON CHAVEZ
22
Simon, 22, started volunteering at the age of 17 as the benefit coordinator with Western Service Workers Association in California. HeÂ eventually came back to his hometownÂ of Chicago, whereÂ heÂ began to volunteer with the Center On Halsted. He started to volunteer with criminal court advocacy in Cook County, worked at Childrenâeuro(TM)s Memorial Hospital as a patient advocate and became a part of The American Foundation For Suicide Prevention andÂ The Trevor Project, among other organizations. Simon is a crisis counselor on Center on Halstedâeuro(TM)s Anti-Violence Project Hotline, and leads the volunteer committee to prevent bullying and violence in schools. A pre-med student, Simon hopes to bring his passion for crisis intervention and violence prevention to emergency medicine.
Did you know? Simon rescued a retired racing greyhound named Noodles.
KEITH ECKER
29
Keith, 29, was born in the suburbs of Dallas. After receiving his bachelors from the University of Missouriâeuro(TM)s School of Journalism, he landed in Chicago in 2004, becoming an editor at a national legal magazineâeuro?but he eventually made the transition into comedy. He studied at the Second City, iO, the Annoyance Theatre and Chicago Dramatist, and has performed stand-up, sketch and improv comedy throughout Chicago. In 2009, he established Essay Fiesta, a monthly charitable reading series that features first-person, non-fiction narratives. The show has raised more than $3,200 for Howard Brown Health Center and 826CHI. He is also a theater critic, a freelance writer and a founding member of the Chicago Story Collective, a theatrical group of essayists.
Did you know? Keith keeps a ventriloquist dummy in his hall closet. Itâeuro(TM)s between a crocodile-shaped humidifier and a tackle box full of paintbrushes.
AAY PRESTON-MYINT
30
Aay, 30, has worked to promote independent arts and culture in Chicago since moving to the city in 2003. He has been a curator and organizer for several artists collectives across the city, including Bridgeportâeuro(TM)s Texas Ballroom, Rogers Parkâeuro(TM)s Mess Hall and No Coast in Pilsen. Most notably, he has been an organizer, DJ and designer for Chances Dancesâeuro?a queer dance party; safe space for gender expression; and platform for local activism, education and performanceâeuro?since its founding in 2005. Aay is also an artist in his own right, and has exhibited extensively in Chicago as well as in San Francisco, Minneapolis and New York. A recent graduate of the Master of Fine Arts program at the University of Illinois, Aayâeuro(TM)s thesis work involving queer utopias and critical thought earned him the prestigious Joan Mitchell Foundation Grant in May 2011.
Did you know? Aay will eat almost anything once, makes the meanest key lime pie from scratch and hates amusement-park rides.
JONATHAN MITCHELL
27
Jonathan, 27, acts as a prevention specialist at Test Positive Aware Network, where he conducts HIV testing and counseling. He also facilitates a monthly group of more than 20 African-American MSM (men who have sex with men). Jonathan also sponsors SMART SEX prevention parties as well: He finds willing community members, hosts a BBQ at their residence and then facilitates an âeurooeHIV/AIDS 101âeuro? course. Jonathan is an aspiring blogger and YouTuber, and is planning on going back to school for photography and art direction in the near future.
Did you know? Jonathan has an obsession with plaid/flannel shirtsâeuro?he has more than 40 of them.
SAMUEL HOEHNLE
29
Sam, 29, is an eastern Iowa native. He went to Coe College and graduated in May 2005 with a B.A. in political science and a minor in theatre. In 2006 he moved to Chicago to work with AmeriCorps. In the first year he worked with City Year Chicago, helping tutor youth and helping run an afterschool program. In Samâeuro(TM)s second AmeriCorps year, he worked with the National AIDS Foundation AmeriCorps program and was placed at the Center on Halsted to work in the drop-in space. After AmeriCorps, Sam went to work for Howard Brown Health Center in the outreach department; he now goes to various venues around Chicago and suburban Cook County to offer HIV/STI testing and referrals. He plans to attend graduate school for public health.
Did you know? Sam placed third in a sweet corn-husking competition and vows to return to earn the gift certificate that was so wrongfully taken from him by a Wisconsinite.
ALEXANDER SEWELL
23
A native of Chicago, Alexander, 23, is a political science major at Roosevelt University, where he once held the position of SGA president. Alexander is previous member of the Chicago Black Gay Menâeuro(TM)s Caucus, an HIV/AIDS advocacy group closely partnered with the CDPH. In addition, he has volunteered with several political campaigns, supporting Democratic candidates who share his progressive values. Alexander has been involved in voter registration campaigns and advocacy for civil-union legislation in Illinois with the Civil Rights Agenda. Alexander is a 2011 New Leaders Council Fellow; the New Leaders Council aims to train and support the next generation of progressive political entrepreneurs.
Did you know? Alexander's middle name is Casanova.
STEPHEN LEONARD
26
Stephen, 26, moved to Chicago from Metro Detroit in 2006. He has since grown into an independent singer/songwriter, hockey player and community advocate.Â He released his debut album, With a Pen, in support of Join the Impact Chicago in 2010 and has also produced and hosted an array of events and fund aisers, including the Maryâeuro(TM)s Spotlight Variety Showcase; the Love and Let Bea Arthur Bar Crawl; and a year-long, weekly acoustic concert series for LGBTQ and supporting acts at the Wild Pug. When off the stage, Leonard is on the ice with the Chicago Gay Hockey Association. His most memorable experience to date is being involved with organizing the Blackhawks and Stanley Cupâeuro(TM)s participation in the 2010 Pride Parade.
Did you know? Stephen has performed (music) at Steamworks. Also, he will have a song included in the upcoming movie Eating Out: Drama Camp, set to premiere on Logo in July.
ANDREW RIPLINGER
25
Andrew, 25, is a founding board member and the current executive director of Rafiki Collaborative, a Chicago-based non-profit organization that works to build the capacity of organizations and institutions that promote the health and well-being of communities in Kenya. He is also the international program coordinator for the Adolescent Community Health Research Group at DePaul University. Andrew also sits on the Jr. Board of Directors at the AIDS Foundation of Chicago (AFC), co-chairing its policy and education working group, and is currently training for his third Chicago marathon with AFCâeuro(TM)s Team to End AIDS. Andrew is currently finishing his masterâeuro(TM)s degree at DePaul in international studies, with a special focus on climate change policy, international development and sustainability.
Did you know? Andrew got malaria on his first trip to Kenya in December 2007âeuro?but donâeuro(TM)t worry, heâeuro(TM)s okay!
ARLINE WELTY
29
Arline, 29, co-founded Chicago Books to Women in Prison 10 years ago while thinking about race and politics at the University of Chicago. Today, the bookish queers and prison abolitionists of Books to Women in Prison have sent more than 100,000 paperback books through bars. Arline enjoys literary criticism, Bitch magazine and presidential biographies. She is the communications manager at PortionPac, a local manufacturer of sustainable cleaning concentrates.
Did you know? When sheâeuro(TM)s not reading and writing, Arline is totally monogamous with her Wustof Grand Prix chefâeuro(TM)s knife.
VIRGIL ROBERSON
28
Virgil, 28, is a Columbus, Ohio native who is the program outreach coordinator for âeurooeOur Voice Advocating Healthâeuro? (OVAH!), a collaboration between Test Positive Aware Network and Center on Halsted. He has proudly contributed to the world of non-profit since the age of 15, and some of the organizations he has worked with include Church of Open Door, South Side Help Center, Taskforce Prevention and Community, Chicago Black Gay Menâeuro(TM)s Caucus and New York Cityâeuro(TM)s Gay Menâeuro(TM)s Health Crisis. In his spare time, Virgil walks the runway within the ball scene for the âeuro?House of Infinitiâeuro? as âeurooeJaylin (Tallboy) Infiniti.âeuro? He also provides condoms as well as STD and HIV literature in his outreach efforts to bars and barber shops on Chicagoâeuro(TM)s South Side.
Did you know? Virgil is the proud gay mother of seven gay children whom he loves dearly.
LULU MARTINEZ
21
Lulu, 21, is a student at Harold Washington College and is double-majoring in education and Latin American and Latino studies. Lulu is a queer undocumented youth and organizer with the Immigrant Youth Justice League (IYJL). Born in Tlalnepantla, Mexico, Lulu moved to the United States with her family at the age of 3. Before her involvement in the immigrant-rights movement, Lulu focused her time on animal rights and art. She is currently working to combine her passion in the arts and politics.
Did you know? Lulu plans on painting a mural in her bedroom this summer. She is also thinking of moving to Georgia to continue the fight for undocumented youthsâeuro(TM) right to access post-secondary education.
Did you know? Nathan enjoys spending time with his cocker spaniel, Stella.
ADAM SORKIN
As president of the LGBT student organization at Harvard Law School, Adam, 29, helped organize a national conference on âeurooeDonâeuro(TM)t Ask, Donâeuro(TM)t Tell,âeuro? as well as the firstÂ Democratic primary debate for Massachusetts governor that focused on LGBT issues. HeÂ led a protest against military recruiters on Harvardâeuro(TM)s campus that was covered in the national press, andÂ his research wasÂ used in the third edition of the textbook Sexual Orientation and the Law.Â Â As an attorney atÂ Schiff Hardin LLP, Adam served on the law firmâeuro(TM)s LGBT Diversity Committee;Â created the firmâeuro(TM)s first LGBT-specific recruitment materials; and persuaded the firm to recruit at an annualÂ LGBT job fair and support LGBT non-profits.Â Adam currently serves as vice president of the Lesbian and Gay Bar Association of Chicago..
Did you know? Spring, summer and fall, AdamÂ commutes by bike from his home in AndersonvilleÂ to his office in the Loop.
MEESHA LOVE
22
Meesha, 22, is a native of Chicago, Illinois raised on the South Side of Chicago. Meesha first begin her work with UCANâeuro(TM)s LGBTQ Host Home Program as a founding member of the Advisory Council consisting of youth and adults with an idea to better their community. The LGBTQ Host Home Program at UCAN partners with host volunteers who open their homes to LGBTQ young adults who experience unstable housing (homelessness). Meesha has also represented the Host Home Program at the national level in Washington, D.C., working to create a workplan for a national advisory council of LGBT leaders who meet annually to address LGBT youth homelessness.
Did you know? Meesha works at a nursing home near downtown as an activity assistant for senior citizens, where she enjoys spending time and making them laugh.
WILL LOPEZ
25
Will, 25, is originally from Florida. He recently graduated cum laude from Chicago-Kent College of Law and will be starting as an associate at Hinshaw & Culbertson LLP this fall. While in law school, Will was president of the schoolâeuro(TM)s LGBT law-student organization, the Chicago-Kent Lambdas. As president, Will organized the Chicago-Kent Lambdas LGBT Civil Rights Conference, which brought together more than 200 politicians, lawyers, professors, students and activists from around the Midwest to learn about topics such as Illinois civil unions, transgender rights and âeurooeDonâeuro(TM)t Ask, Donâeuro(TM)t Tell.âeuro? Will is also on the board of the Lesbian & Gay Bar Association of Chicago and has recently published a law review article on same-sex marital parentage.
Did you know? Will has two dogs, Mr. Darcy and Bennet, which are named after characters in Jane Austenâeuro(TM)s Pride & Prejudice.
PETE SUBKOVIAK
29
Pete, 29, is a policy coordinator at the AIDS Foundation of Chicago (AFC), where he works on several legislative and advocacy healthcare-access initiatives. He plans the annual Illinois HIV/AIDS Lobby Days, coordinates the Illinois Alliance for Sound AIDS Policy (IL ASAP) and the Midwest AIDS Policy Alliance (MAPA) as well as AFCâeuro(TM)s online advocacy efforts. He also works on expanding health care access and employment opportunities for the transgender community. His opinion editorials have been featured on the Huffington Post, Savage Love Blog, Bilerco Project, and several other online and print media. Pete sits on Congressman Mike Quigleyâeuro(TM)s Health Care and LGBT Advisory Boards and is part of the leadership of the Citywide LGBT Coalition.
Did you know? A true Wisconsinite, Pete is a cheese-curd connoisseur.
ANTHONY GALLOWAY
29
Anthony, 29, is an independent public health consultant that specializes in HIV prevention and sexual reproductive health. He has worked with community-based organizations across the country in implementing CDC evidence-based community-level interventions in addition as serving in leadership roles on Pride committees. Currently, Anthony holds posts on the Chicago Black Gay Menâeuro(TM)s Caucus, and the city and state HIV-prevention planning groups. Just recently he joined the Rocks Coordinating Committee to assist with the coordination of the Montrose Rocks Pride event. Anthony also is the chief creative officer for Art & Soul, a collective performance act for the LGBT community hosted at Circuit Nightclub. In 2004, Anthony was the recipient of the Creating Change award from the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force.
Did you know? Anthony enjoys attending and judging drag pageants.
JUAN CALDERON
25
Juan, 25, was born and raised in Humboldt Park, the center of Chicagoâeuro(TM)sÂ Puerto Rican community. Juanâeuro(TM)s experiences with Chicagoâeuro(TM)s Puerto RicanÂ Cultural Center, which date back to his enrollment in the Centerâeuro(TM)s Consuelo LeeÂ Corretjer Daycare, shaped his views regarding the importance of the communityÂ building, self-determination and LGBTQ health advocacy. As the youngest director of the project Vida/SIDA, Juean oversees the daily operation of many ofâeuro?Chicagoâeuro(TM)s Latino prevention interventions, advocacy and LGBTQâeuro?services in Chicagoâeuro(TM)s Near Northwest Side. Three years ago, he initiatedâeuro?a pageant to address homophobia and transphobia in the community and to createâeuro?LGBTQ community ambassadors; now an annual event, this marks one of Calderonâeuro(TM)sâeuro?greatest successes.
Did you know? Juan likes listening to musicians such as Shakira, Pussycat Dolls and Ruben Blades, and enjoys TV shows such as RuPaulâeuro(TM)s Drag Race and Family Guy.
JAMES HENDERSON
29
James, 29, was working in the nonprofit world before moving to Chicago more than six years ago. As the training manager at Chicago House and Social Service Agency for the last four years, James has worked on every aspect of building and implementing its social enterprise, Sweet Miss Givingâeuro(TM)s Bakery. He spends countless hours training and supervising classes of interns who are looking for an opportunity to get back into the workforce.
Did you know? When James is not at Chicago House or Sweet Miss Givingâeuro(TM)s, you can find him at the gym or preparing meals at home to dull the temptation to eat all the decadent sweets at the bakery. James also loves spending time with his beloved dog.

Identifier / keyword: Y; GenderWatch

Title: WINDY TIMES CITY 12th Annual THIRTY under 30

Publication title: Windy City Times; Chicago, Ill.

Volume: 26

Issue: 38

Pages: 50-55

Number of pages: 6

Publication year: 2011

Publication date: Jun 22, 2011

Publisher: Windy City Media Group

Place of publication: Chicago, Ill.

Country of publication: United States, Chicago, Ill.

Publication subject: Lgbtq+

ISSN: 1049698X

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: General Information

ProQuest document ID: 874929203

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/windy-times-city-12th-annual-thirty-under-30/docview/874929203/se-2?accountid=14696

Copyright: Copyright Windy City Media Group Jun 22, 2011

Last updated: 2023-09-02

Database: GenderWatch


